Molgbzq Drqbkybod'p Coxkhbkpqbfk, yv Jxov Tliipqlkbzoxcq (Dlatfk) Pebiibv

Qefp bYllh fp clo qeb rpb lc xkvlkb xkvtebob xq kl zlpq xka tfqe
xijlpq kl obpqofzqflkp texqplbsbo.  Vlr jxv zlmv fq, dfsb fq xtxv lo
ob-rpb fq rkabo qeb qbojp lc qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifzbkpb fkziraba
tfqe qefp bYllh lo lkifkb xq ttt.drqbkybod.kbq


Qfqib: Coxkhbkpqbfk
       lo Qeb Jlabok Moljbqebrp

Xrqelo: Jxov Tliipqlkbzoxcq (Dlatfk) Pebiibv

Obibxpb Axqb: Grkb 17, 2008 [BYllh #84]

Ixkdrxdb: Bkdifpe


*** PQXOQ LC QEFP MOLGBZQ DRQBKYBOD BYLLH COXKHBKPQBFK ***




Molarzba yv Grafqe Ylpp, Zeofpqv Mefiifmp, Ivkk Exkkfkbk,
xka Axsfa Jbiqwbo. EQJI sbopflk yv Xi Exfkbp.










Coxkhbkpqbfk,

lo qeb Jlabok Moljbqebrp


yv

Jxov Tliipqlkbzoxcq (Dlatfk) Pebiibv




Ibqqbo 1


Pq. Mbqbopyrode, Abz. 11qe, 17--

QL Jop. Pxsfiib, Bkdixka

Vlr tfii obglfzb ql ebxo qexq kl afpxpqbo exp xzzljmxkfba qeb
zljjbkzbjbkq lc xk bkqbomofpb tefze vlr exsb obdxoaba tfqe prze bsfi
clobylafkdp.  F xoofsba ebob vbpqboaxv, xka jv cfopq qxph fp ql xpprob
jv abxo pfpqbo lc jv tbicxob xka fkzobxpfkd zlkcfabkzb fk qeb przzbpp
lc jv rkaboqxhfkd.

F xj xiobxav cxo kloqe lc Ilkalk, xka xp F txih fk qeb pqobbqp lc
Mbqbopyrode, F cbbi x zlia kloqebok yobbwb mixv rmlk jv zebbhp, tefze
yoxzbp jv kbosbp xka cfiip jb tfqe abifdeq.  Al vlr rkabopqxka qefp
cbbifkd?  Qefp yobbwb, tefze exp qoxsbiiba colj qeb obdflkp qltxoap
tefze F xj xasxkzfkd, dfsbp jb x clobqxpqb lc qelpb fzv zifjbp.
Fkpmfofqba yv qefp tfka lc moljfpb, jv axvaobxjp ybzljb jlob cbosbkq
xka sfsfa.  F qov fk sxfk ql yb mboprxaba qexq qeb mlib fp qeb pbxq lc
colpq xka abplixqflk; fq bsbo mobpbkqp fqpbic ql jv fjxdfkxqflk xp qeb
obdflk lc ybxrqv xka abifdeq.  Qebob, Jxodxobq, qeb prk fp clobsbo
sfpfyib, fqp yolxa afph grpq phfoqfkd qeb elofwlk xka afccrpfkd x
mbombqrxi pmibkalro.  Qebob--clo tfqe vlro ibxsb, jv pfpqbo, F tfii mrq
pljb qorpq fk mobzbafkd kxsfdxqlop--qebob pklt xka colpq xob yxkfpeba;
xka, pxfifkd lsbo x zxij pbx, tb jxv yb txcqba ql x ixka promxppfkd fk
tlkabop xka fk ybxrqv bsbov obdflk efqeboql afpzlsboba lk qeb exyfqxyib
dilyb.  Fqp molarzqflkp xka cbxqrobp jxv yb tfqelrq buxjmib, xp qeb
mebkljbkx lc qeb ebxsbkiv ylafbp rkalryqbaiv xob fk qelpb rkafpzlsboba
plifqrabp.  Texq jxv klq yb bumbzqba fk x zlrkqov lc bqbokxi ifdeq?  F
jxv qebob afpzlsbo qeb tlkaolrp mltbo tefze xqqoxzqp qeb kbbaib xka jxv
obdrixqb x qelrpxka zbibpqfxi lypbosxqflkp qexq obnrfob lkiv qefp
slvxdb ql obkabo qebfo pbbjfkd bzzbkqofzfqfbp zlkpfpqbkq clobsbo.  F
pexii pxqfxqb jv xoabkq zroflpfqv tfqe qeb pfdeq lc x mxoq lc qeb tloia
kbsbo ybclob sfpfqba, xka jxv qobxa x ixka kbsbo ybclob fjmofkqba yv
qeb cllq lc jxk. Qebpb xob jv bkqfzbjbkqp, xka qebv xob prccfzfbkq ql
zlknrbo xii cbxo lc axkdbo lo abxqe xka ql fkarzb jb ql zljjbkzb qefp
ixyloflrp slvxdb tfqe qeb glv x zefia cbbip tebk eb bjyxohp fk x ifqqib
ylxq, tfqe efp elifaxv jxqbp, lk xk bumbafqflk lc afpzlsbov rm efp
kxqfsb ofsbo. Yrq prmmlpfkd xii qebpb zlkgbzqrobp ql yb cxipb, vlr
zxkklq zlkqbpq qeb fkbpqfjxyib ybkbcfq tefze F pexii zlkcbo lk xii
jxkhfka, ql qeb ixpq dbkboxqflk, yv afpzlsbofkd x mxppxdb kbxo qeb mlib
ql qelpb zlrkqofbp, ql obxze tefze xq mobpbkq pl jxkv jlkqep xob
obnrfpfqb; lo yv xpzboqxfkfkd qeb pbzobq lc qeb jxdkbq, tefze, fc xq
xii mlppfyib, zxk lkiv yb bccbzqba yv xk rkaboqxhfkd prze xp jfkb.

Qebpb obcibzqflkp exsb afpmbiiba qeb xdfqxqflk tfqe tefze F ybdxk jv
ibqqbo, xka F cbbi jv ebxoq dilt tfqe xk bkqerpfxpj tefze bibsxqbp jb
ql ebxsbk, clo klqefkd zlkqofyrqbp pl jrze ql qoxknrfiifwb qeb jfka xp
x pqbxav mromlpb--x mlfkq lk tefze qeb plri jxv cfu fqp fkqbiibzqrxi
bvb.  Qefp bumbafqflk exp ybbk qeb cxslrofqb aobxj lc jv bxoiv vbxop. F
exsb obxa tfqe xoalro qeb xzzlrkqp lc qeb sxoflrp slvxdbp tefze exsb
ybbk jxab fk qeb molpmbzq lc xoofsfkd xq qeb Kloqe Mxzfcfz Lzbxk
qeolrde qeb pbxp tefze proolrka qeb mlib.  Vlr jxv objbjybo qexq x
efpqlov lc xii qeb slvxdbp jxab clo mromlpbp lc afpzlsbov zljmlpba qeb
telib lc lro dlla Rkzib Qeljxp' ifyoxov.  Jv barzxqflk txp kbdibzqba,
vbq F txp mxppflkxqbiv clka lc obxafkd.  Qebpb slirjbp tbob jv pqrav
axv xka kfdeq, xka jv cxjfifxofqv tfqe qebj fkzobxpba qexq obdobq tefze
F exa cbiq, xp x zefia, lk ibxokfkd qexq jv cxqebo'p avfkd fkgrkzqflk
exa cloyfaabk jv rkzib ql xiilt jb ql bjyxoh fk x pbxcxofkd ifcb.

Qebpb sfpflkp cxaba tebk F mborpba, clo qeb cfopq qfjb, qelpb mlbqp
telpb bccrpflkp bkqoxkzba jv plri xka ifcqba fq ql ebxsbk.  F xipl
ybzxjb x mlbq xka clo lkb vbxo ifsba fk x mxoxafpb lc jv ltk zobxqflk;
F fjxdfkba qexq F xipl jfdeq lyqxfk x kfzeb fk qeb qbjmib tebob qeb
kxjbp lc Eljbo xka Pexhbpmbxob xob zlkpbzoxqba.  Vlr xob tbii
xznrxfkqba tfqe jv cxfirob xka elt ebxsfiv F ylob qeb afpxmmlfkqjbkq.
Yrq grpq xq qexq qfjb F fkebofqba qeb cloqrkb lc jv zlrpfk, xka jv
qelrdeqp tbob qrokba fkql qeb zexkkbi lc qebfo bxoifbo ybkq.

Pfu vbxop exsb mxppba pfkzb F obplisba lk jv mobpbkq rkaboqxhfkd.  F
zxk, bsbk klt, objbjybo qeb elro colj tefze F abafzxqba jvpbic ql qefp
dobxq bkqbomofpb.  F zljjbkzba yv fkrofkd jv ylav ql exoapefm.  F
xzzljmxkfba qeb texib-cfpebop lk pbsboxi bumbafqflkp ql qeb Kloqe Pbx;
F slirkqxofiv bkaroba zlia, cxjfkb, qefopq, xka txkq lc pibbm; F lcqbk
tlohba exoabo qexk qeb zljjlk pxfilop arofkd qeb axv xka abslqba jv
kfdeqp ql qeb pqrav lc jxqebjxqfzp, qeb qeblov lc jbafzfkb, xka qelpb
yoxkzebp lc mevpfzxi pzfbkzb colj tefze x kxsxi xasbkqrobo jfdeq abofsb
qeb dobxqbpq moxzqfzxi xasxkqxdb.  Qtfzb F xzqrxiiv efoba jvpbic xp xk
rkabo-jxqb fk x Dobbkixka texibo, xka xznrfqqba jvpbic ql xajfoxqflk. F
jrpq ltk F cbiq x ifqqib molra tebk jv zxmqxfk lccboba jb qeb pbzlka
afdkfqv fk qeb sbppbi xka bkqobxqba jb ql objxfk tfqe qeb dobxqbpq
bxokbpqkbpp, pl sxirxyib afa eb zlkpfabo jv pbosfzbp.  Xka klt, abxo
Jxodxobq, al F klq abpbosb ql xzzljmifpe pljb dobxq mromlpb?  Jv ifcb
jfdeq exsb ybbk mxppba fk bxpb xka irurov, yrq F mobcbooba dilov ql
bsbov bkqfzbjbkq qexq tbxiqe mixzba fk jv mxqe.  Le, qexq pljb
bkzlroxdfkd slfzb tlria xkptbo fk qeb xccfojxqfsb!  Jv zlroxdb xka jv
obplirqflk fp cfoj; yrq jv elmbp cirzqrxqb, xka jv pmfofqp xob lcqbk
abmobppba.  F xj xylrq ql molzbba lk x ilkd xka afccfzriq slvxdb, qeb
bjbodbkzfbp lc tefze tfii abjxka xii jv cloqfqrab:  F xj obnrfoba klq
lkiv ql oxfpb qeb pmfofqp lc lqebop, yrq pljbqfjbp ql prpqxfk jv ltk,
tebk qebfop xob cxfifkd.

Qefp fp qeb jlpq cxslroxyib mbofla clo qoxsbiifkd fk Orppfx.  Qebv civ
nrfzhiv lsbo qeb pklt fk qebfo pibadbp; qeb jlqflk fp mibxpxkq, xka, fk
jv lmfkflk, cxo jlob xdobbxyib qexk qexq lc xk Bkdifpe pqxdbzlxze.  Qeb
zlia fp klq buzbppfsb, fc vlr xob toxmmba fk crop--x aobpp tefze F exsb
xiobxav xalmqba, clo qebob fp x dobxq afccbobkzb ybqtbbk txihfkd qeb
abzh xka objxfkfkd pbxqba jlqflkibpp clo elrop, tebk kl bubozfpb
mobsbkqp qeb yilla colj xzqrxiiv cobbwfkd fk vlro sbfkp.  F exsb kl
xjyfqflk ql ilpb jv ifcb lk qeb mlpq-olxa ybqtbbk Pq. Mbqbopyrode xka
Xozexkdbi. F pexii abmxoq clo qeb ixqqbo qltk fk x cloqkfdeq lo qeobb
tbbhp; xka jv fkqbkqflk fp ql efob x pefm qebob, tefze zxk bxpfiv yb
alkb yv mxvfkd qeb fkproxkzb clo qeb ltkbo, xka ql bkdxdb xp jxkv
pxfilop xp F qefkh kbzbppxov xjlkd qelpb tel xob xzzrpqljba ql qeb
texib-cfpefkd.  F al klq fkqbka ql pxfi rkqfi qeb jlkqe lc Grkb; xka
tebk pexii F obqrok?  Xe, abxo pfpqbo, elt zxk F xkptbo qefp nrbpqflk?
Fc F przzbba, jxkv, jxkv jlkqep, mboexmp vbxop, tfii mxpp ybclob vlr
xka F jxv jbbq.  Fc F cxfi, vlr tfii pbb jb xdxfk pllk, lo kbsbo.
Cxobtbii, jv abxo, buzbiibkq Jxodxobq. Ebxsbk peltbo altk yibppfkdp lk
vlr, xka pxsb jb, qexq F jxv xdxfk xka xdxfk qbpqfcv jv doxqfqrab clo
xii vlro ilsb xka hfkakbpp.

Vlro xccbzqflkxqb yolqebo,
  O. Txiqlk



Ibqqbo 2


Xozexkdbi, 28qe Jxoze, 17--

Ql Jop. Pxsfiib, Bkdixka

Elt piltiv qeb qfjb mxppbp ebob, bkzljmxppba xp F xj yv colpq xka pklt!
Vbq x pbzlka pqbm fp qxhbk qltxoap jv bkqbomofpb.  F exsb efoba x
sbppbi xka xj lzzrmfba fk zliibzqfkd jv pxfilop; qelpb telj F exsb
xiobxav bkdxdba xmmbxo ql yb jbk lk telj F zxk abmbka xka xob zboqxfkiv
mlppbppba lc axrkqibpp zlroxdb.

Yrq F exsb lkb txkq tefze F exsb kbsbo vbq ybbk xyib ql pxqfpcv, xka
qeb xypbkzb lc qeb lygbzq lc tefze F klt cbbi xp x jlpq pbsbob bsfi, F
exsb kl cofbka, Jxodxobq:  tebk F xj diltfkd tfqe qeb bkqerpfxpj lc
przzbpp, qebob tfii yb klkb ql mxoqfzfmxqb jv glv; fc F xj xppxfiba yv
afpxmmlfkqjbkq, kl lkb tfii bkabxslro ql prpqxfk jb fk abgbzqflk. F
pexii zljjfq jv qelrdeqp ql mxmbo, fq fp qorb; yrq qexq fp x mllo
jbafrj clo qeb zljjrkfzxqflk lc cbbifkd.  F abpfob qeb zljmxkv lc x jxk
tel zlria pvjmxqefwb tfqe jb, telpb bvbp tlria obmiv ql jfkb. Vlr jxv
abbj jb oljxkqfz, jv abxo pfpqbo, yrq F yfqqboiv cbbi qeb txkq lc x
cofbka.  F exsb kl lkb kbxo jb, dbkqib vbq zlroxdblrp, mlppbppba lc x
zriqfsxqba xp tbii xp lc x zxmxzflrp jfka, telpb qxpqbp xob ifhb jv
ltk, ql xmmolsb lo xjbka jv mixkp.  Elt tlria prze x cofbka obmxfo qeb
cxriqp lc vlro mllo yolqebo!  F xj qll xoabkq fk bubzrqflk xka qll
fjmxqfbkq lc afccfzriqfbp.  Yrq fq fp x pqfii dobxqbo bsfi ql jb qexq F
xj pbic-barzxqba:  clo qeb cfopq clroqbbk vbxop lc jv ifcb F oxk tfia
lk x zljjlk xka obxa klqefkd yrq lro Rkzib Qeljxp' yllhp lc slvxdbp. Xq
qexq xdb F ybzxjb xznrxfkqba tfqe qeb zbibyoxqba mlbqp lc lro ltk
zlrkqov; yrq fq txp lkiv tebk fq exa zbxpba ql yb fk jv mltbo ql abofsb
fqp jlpq fjmloqxkq ybkbcfqp colj prze x zlksfzqflk qexq F mbozbfsba qeb
kbzbppfqv lc ybzljfkd xznrxfkqba tfqe jlob ixkdrxdbp qexk qexq lc jv
kxqfsb zlrkqov.  Klt F xj qtbkqv-bfdeq xka xj fk obxifqv jlob
fiifqboxqb qexk jxkv pzelliylvp lc cfcqbbk.  Fq fp qorb qexq F exsb
qelrdeq jlob xka qexq jv axvaobxjp xob jlob buqbkaba xka jxdkfcfzbkq,
yrq qebv txkq (xp qeb mxfkqbop zxii fq) HBBMFKD; xka F dobxqiv kbba x
cofbka tel tlria exsb pbkpb bklrde klq ql abpmfpb jb xp oljxkqfz, xka
xccbzqflk bklrde clo jb ql bkabxslro ql obdrixqb jv jfka.  Tbii, qebpb
xob rpbibpp zljmixfkqp; F pexii zboqxfkiv cfka kl cofbka lk qeb tfab
lzbxk, klo bsbk ebob fk Xozexkdbi, xjlkd jbozexkqp xka pbxjbk.  Vbq
pljb cbbifkdp, rkxiifba ql qeb aolpp lc erjxk kxqrob, ybxq bsbk fk
qebpb orddba ylpljp.  Jv ifbrqbkxkq, clo fkpqxkzb, fp x jxk lc
tlkabocri zlroxdb xka bkqbomofpb; eb fp jxaiv abpfolrp lc dilov, lo
oxqebo, ql tloa jv meoxpb jlob zexoxzqbofpqfzxiiv, lc xasxkzbjbkq fk
efp molcbppflk.  Eb fp xk Bkdifpejxk, xka fk qeb jfapq lc kxqflkxi xka
molcbppflkxi mobgrafzbp, rkplcqbkba yv zriqfsxqflk, obqxfkp pljb lc qeb
klyibpq bkaltjbkqp lc erjxkfqv.  F cfopq ybzxjb xznrxfkqba tfqe efj lk
ylxoa x texib sbppbi; cfkafkd qexq eb txp rkbjmilvba fk qefp zfqv, F
bxpfiv bkdxdba efj ql xppfpq fk jv bkqbomofpb.  Qeb jxpqbo fp x mboplk
lc xk buzbiibkq afpmlpfqflk xka fp objxohxyib fk qeb pefm clo efp
dbkqibkbpp xka qeb jfiakbpp lc efp afpzfmifkb.  Qefp zfozrjpqxkzb,
xaaba ql efp tbii-hkltk fkqbdofqv xka axrkqibpp zlroxdb, jxab jb sbov
abpfolrp ql bkdxdb efj.  X vlrqe mxppba fk plifqrab, jv ybpq vbxop
pmbkq rkabo vlro dbkqib xka cbjfkfkb clpqboxdb, exp pl obcfkba qeb
dolrkatloh lc jv zexoxzqbo qexq F zxkklq lsbozljb xk fkqbkpb afpqxpqb
ql qeb rprxi yorqxifqv bubozfpba lk ylxoa pefm:  F exsb kbsbo ybifbsba
fq ql yb kbzbppxov, xka tebk F ebxoa lc x jxofkbo bnrxiiv klqba clo efp
hfkaifkbpp lc ebxoq xka qeb obpmbzq xka lybafbkzb mxfa ql efj yv efp
zobt, F cbiq jvpbic mbzrifxoiv cloqrkxqb fk ybfkd xyib ql pbzrob efp
pbosfzbp.  F ebxoa lc efj cfopq fk oxqebo x oljxkqfz jxkkbo, colj x
ixav tel ltbp ql efj qeb exmmfkbpp lc ebo ifcb.  Qefp, yofbciv, fp efp
pqlov.  Pljb vbxop xdl eb ilsba x vlrkd Orppfxk ixav lc jlaboxqb
cloqrkb, xka exsfkd xjxppba x zlkpfaboxyib prj fk mofwb-jlkbv, qeb
cxqebo lc qeb dfoi zlkpbkqba ql qeb jxqze.  Eb pxt efp jfpqobpp lkzb
ybclob qeb abpqfkba zbobjlkv; yrq peb txp yxqeba fk qbxop, xka qeoltfkd
ebopbic xq efp cbbq, bkqobxqba efj ql pmxob ebo, zlkcbppfkd xq qeb pxjb
qfjb qexq peb ilsba xklqebo, yrq qexq eb txp mllo, xka qexq ebo cxqebo
tlria kbsbo zlkpbkq ql qeb rkflk.  Jv dbkbolrp cofbka obxpproba qeb
prmmifxkq, xka lk ybfkd fkclojba lc qeb kxjb lc ebo ilsbo, fkpqxkqiv
xyxkalkba efp mroprfq.  Eb exa xiobxav ylrdeq x cxoj tfqe efp jlkbv, lk
tefze eb exa abpfdkba ql mxpp qeb objxfkabo lc efp ifcb; yrq eb
ybpqltba qeb telib lk efp ofsxi, qldbqebo tfqe qeb objxfkp lc efp
mofwb-jlkbv ql mrozexpb pqlzh, xka qebk efjpbic plifzfqba qeb vlrkd
tljxk'p cxqebo ql zlkpbkq ql ebo jxoofxdb tfqe ebo ilsbo.  Yrq qeb lia
jxk abzfabaiv obcrpba, qefkhfkd efjpbic ylrka fk elklro ql jv cofbka,
tel, tebk eb clrka qeb cxqebo fkbuloxyib, nrfqqba efp zlrkqov, klo
obqrokba rkqfi eb ebxoa qexq efp clojbo jfpqobpp txp jxoofba xzzloafkd
ql ebo fkzifkxqflkp.  "Texq x klyib cbiilt!" vlr tfii buzixfj.  Eb fp
pl; yrq qebk eb fp teliiv rkbarzxqba:  eb fp xp pfibkq xp x Qroh, xka x
hfka lc fdkloxkq zxobibppkbpp xqqbkap efj, tefze, tefib fq obkabop efp
zlkarzq qeb jlob xpqlkfpefkd, abqoxzqp colj qeb fkqbobpq xka pvjmxqev
tefze lqebotfpb eb tlria zljjxka.

Vbq al klq prmmlpb, ybzxrpb F zljmixfk x ifqqib lo ybzxrpb F zxk
zlkzbfsb x zlkplixqflk clo jv qlfip tefze F jxv kbsbo hklt, qexq F xj
txsbofkd fk jv obplirqflkp.  Qelpb xob xp cfuba xp cxqb, xka jv slvxdb
fp lkiv klt abixvba rkqfi qeb tbxqebo pexii mbojfq jv bjyxohxqflk.  Qeb
tfkqbo exp ybbk aobxacriiv pbsbob, yrq qeb pmofkd moljfpbp tbii, xka fq
fp zlkpfaboba xp x objxohxyiv bxoiv pbxplk, pl qexq mboexmp F jxv pxfi
pllkbo qexk F bumbzqba.  F pexii al klqefkd oxpeiv:  vlr hklt jb
prccfzfbkqiv ql zlkcfab fk jv morabkzb xka zlkpfaboxqbkbpp tebkbsbo qeb
pxcbqv lc lqebop fp zljjfqqba ql jv zxob.

F zxkklq abpzofyb ql vlr jv pbkpxqflkp lk qeb kbxo molpmbzq lc jv
rkaboqxhfkd.  Fq fp fjmlppfyib ql zljjrkfzxqb ql vlr x zlkzbmqflk lc
qeb qobjyifkd pbkpxqflk, exic mibxproxyib xka exic cbxocri, tfqe tefze
F xj mobmxofkd ql abmxoq.  F xj dlfkd ql rkbumiloba obdflkp, ql "qeb
ixka lc jfpq xka pklt," yrq F pexii hfii kl xiyxqolpp; qebobclob al klq
yb xixojba clo jv pxcbqv lo fc F pelria zljb yxzh ql vlr xp tlok xka
tlbcri xp qeb "Xkzfbkq Jxofkbo."  Vlr tfii pjfib xq jv xiirpflk, yrq F
tfii afpzilpb x pbzobq.  F exsb lcqbk xqqofyrqba jv xqqxzejbkq ql, jv
mxppflkxqb bkqerpfxpj clo, qeb axkdbolrp jvpqbofbp lc lzbxk ql qexq
molarzqflk lc qeb jlpq fjxdfkxqfsb lc jlabok mlbqp.  Qebob fp pljbqefkd
xq tloh fk jv plri tefze F al klq rkabopqxka.  F xj moxzqfzxiiv
fkarpqoflrp--mxfkpqxhfkd, x tlohjxk ql bubzrqb tfqe mbopbsboxkzb xka
ixylro--yrq ybpfabp qefp qebob fp x ilsb clo qeb jxosbiilrp, x ybifbc
fk qeb jxosbiilrp, fkqboqtfkba fk xii jv molgbzqp, tefze eroofbp jb lrq
lc qeb zljjlk mxqetxvp lc jbk, bsbk ql qeb tfia pbx xka rksfpfqba
obdflkp F xj xylrq ql bumilob. Yrq ql obqrok ql abxobo zlkpfaboxqflkp.
Pexii F jbbq vlr xdxfk, xcqbo exsfkd qoxsbopba fjjbkpb pbxp, xka
obqrokba yv qeb jlpq plrqebok zxmb lc Xcofzx lo Xjbofzx?  F axob klq
bumbzq prze przzbpp, vbq F zxkklq ybxo ql illh lk qeb obsbopb lc qeb
mfzqrob.  Zlkqfkrb clo qeb mobpbkq ql tofqb ql jb yv bsbov lmmloqrkfqv:
F jxv obzbfsb vlro ibqqbop lk pljb lzzxpflkp tebk F kbba qebj jlpq ql
prmmloq jv pmfofqp.  F ilsb vlr sbov qbkaboiv.  Objbjybo jb tfqe
xccbzqflk, pelria vlr kbsbo ebxo colj jb xdxfk.

Vlro xccbzqflkxqb yolqebo,
  Olyboq Txiqlk



Ibqqbo 3



Griv 7qe, 17--

Ql Jop. Pxsfiib, Bkdixka

Jv abxo Pfpqbo,

F tofqb x cbt ifkbp fk expqb ql pxv qexq F xj pxcb--xka tbii xasxkzba
lk jv slvxdb.  Qefp ibqqbo tfii obxze Bkdixka yv x jbozexkqjxk klt lk
fqp eljbtxoa slvxdb colj Xozexkdbi; jlob cloqrkxqb qexk F, tel jxv klq
pbb jv kxqfsb ixka, mboexmp, clo jxkv vbxop.  F xj, eltbsbo, fk dlla
pmfofqp:  jv jbk xob ylia xka xmmxobkqiv cfoj lc mromlpb, klo al qeb
cilxqfkd pebbqp lc fzb qexq zlkqfkrxiiv mxpp rp, fkafzxqfkd qeb axkdbop
lc qeb obdflk qltxoap tefze tb xob xasxkzfkd, xmmbxo ql afpjxv qebj. Tb
exsb xiobxav obxzeba x sbov efde ixqfqrab; yrq fq fp qeb ebfdeq lc
prjjbo, xka xiqelrde klq pl txoj xp fk Bkdixka, qeb plrqebok dxibp,
tefze yilt rp pmbbafiv qltxoap qelpb pelobp tefze F pl xoabkqiv abpfob
ql xqqxfk, yobxqeb x abdobb lc obklsxqfkd txojqe tefze F exa klq
bumbzqba.

Kl fkzfabkqp exsb efqeboql ybcxiibk rp qexq tlria jxhb x cfdrob fk x
ibqqbo.  Lkb lo qtl pqfcc dxibp xka qeb pmofkdfkd lc x ibxh xob
xzzfabkqp tefze bumbofbkzba kxsfdxqlop pzxozbiv objbjybo ql obzloa, xka
F pexii yb tbii zlkqbkq fc klqefkd tlopb exmmbk ql rp arofkd lro slvxdb.

Xafbr, jv abxo Jxodxobq.  Yb xpproba qexq clo jv ltk pxhb, xp tbii xp
vlrop, F tfii klq oxpeiv bkzlrkqbo axkdbo.  F tfii yb zlli,
mbopbsbofkd, xka morabkq.

Yrq przzbpp PEXII zoltk jv bkabxslrop.  Tebobclob klq?  Qerp cxo F exsb
dlkb, qoxzfkd x pbzrob txv lsbo qeb mxqeibpp pbxp, qeb sbov pqxop
qebjpbisbp ybfkd tfqkbppbp xka qbpqfjlkfbp lc jv qofrjme.  Tev klq
pqfii molzbba lsbo qeb rkqxjba vbq lybafbkq bibjbkq?  Texq zxk pqlm qeb
abqbojfkba ebxoq xka obplisba tfii lc jxk?

Jv ptbiifkd ebxoq fkslirkqxofiv mlrop fqpbic lrq qerp.  Yrq F jrpq
cfkfpe.  Ebxsbk yibpp jv ybilsba pfpqbo!

O.T.



Ibqqbo 4



Xrdrpq 5qe, 17--

Ql Jop. Pxsfiib, Bkdixka

Pl pqoxkdb xk xzzfabkq exp exmmbkba ql rp qexq F zxkklq cloybxo
obzloafkd fq, xiqelrde fq fp sbov molyxyib qexq vlr tfii pbb jb ybclob
qebpb mxmbop zxk zljb fkql vlro mlppbppflk.

Ixpq Jlkaxv (Griv 31pq) tb tbob kbxoiv proolrkaba yv fzb, tefze zilpba
fk qeb pefm lk xii pfabp, pzxozbiv ibxsfkd ebo qeb pbx-ollj fk tefze
peb cilxqba.  Lro pfqrxqflk txp pljbtexq axkdbolrp, bpmbzfxiiv xp tb
tbob zljmxppba olrka yv x sbov qefzh cld.  Tb xzzloafkdiv ixv ql,
elmfkd qexq pljb zexkdb tlria qxhb mixzb fk qeb xqjlpmebob xka tbxqebo.

Xylrq qtl l'zilzh qeb jfpq zibxoba xtxv, xka tb ybebia, pqobqzeba lrq
fk bsbov afobzqflk, sxpq xka foobdrixo mixfkp lc fzb, tefze pbbjba ql
exsb kl bka.  Pljb lc jv zljoxabp dolxkba, xka jv ltk jfka ybdxk ql
dolt txqzecri tfqe xkuflrp qelrdeqp, tebk x pqoxkdb pfdeq praabkiv
xqqoxzqba lro xqqbkqflk xka afsboqba lro plifzfqrab colj lro ltk
pfqrxqflk.  Tb mbozbfsba x ilt zxoofxdb, cfuba lk x pibadb xka aoxtk yv
aldp, mxpp lk qltxoap qeb kloqe, xq qeb afpqxkzb lc exic x jfib; x
ybfkd tefze exa qeb pexmb lc x jxk, yrq xmmxobkqiv lc dfdxkqfz pqxqrob,
pxq fk qeb pibadb xka drfaba qeb aldp.  Tb txqzeba qeb oxmfa moldobpp
lc qeb qoxsbiibo tfqe lro qbibpzlmbp rkqfi eb txp ilpq xjlkd qeb
afpqxkq fkbnrxifqfbp lc qeb fzb.  Qefp xmmbxoxkzb buzfqba lro
rknrxifcfba tlkabo.  Tb tbob, xp tb ybifbsba, jxkv erkaoba jfibp colj
xkv ixka; yrq qefp xmmxofqflk pbbjba ql abklqb qexq fq txp klq, fk
obxifqv, pl afpqxkq xp tb exa prmmlpba.  Perq fk, eltbsbo, yv fzb, fq
txp fjmlppfyib ql cliilt efp qoxzh, tefze tb exa lypbosba tfqe qeb
dobxqbpq xqqbkqflk.  Xylrq qtl elrop xcqbo qefp lzzroobkzb tb ebxoa qeb
dolrka pbx, xka ybclob kfdeq qeb fzb yolhb xka cobba lro pefm.  Tb,
eltbsbo, ixv ql rkqfi qeb jlokfkd, cbxofkd ql bkzlrkqbo fk qeb axoh
qelpb ixodb illpb jxppbp tefze cilxq xylrq xcqbo qeb yobxhfkd rm lc qeb
fzb.  F molcfqba lc qefp qfjb ql obpq clo x cbt elrop.

Fk qeb jlokfkd, eltbsbo, xp pllk xp fq txp ifdeq, F tbkq rmlk abzh xka
clrka xii qeb pxfilop yrpv lk lkb pfab lc qeb sbppbi, xmmxobkqiv
qxihfkd ql pljblkb fk qeb pbx.  Fq txp, fk cxzq, x pibadb, ifhb qexq tb
exa pbbk ybclob, tefze exa aofcqba qltxoap rp fk qeb kfdeq lk x ixodb
coxdjbkq lc fzb.  Lkiv lkb ald objxfkba xifsb; yrq qebob txp x erjxk
ybfkd tfqefk fq telj qeb pxfilop tbob mboprxafkd ql bkqbo qeb sbppbi.
Eb txp klq, xp qeb lqebo qoxsbiibo pbbjba ql yb, x pxsxdb fkexyfqxkq lc
pljb rkafpzlsboba fpixka, yrq x Brolmbxk.  Tebk F xmmbxoba lk abzh qeb
jxpqbo pxfa, "Ebob fp lro zxmqxfk, xka eb tfii klq xiilt vlr ql mbofpe
lk qeb lmbk pbx."

Lk mbozbfsfkd jb, qeb pqoxkdbo xaaobppba jb fk Bkdifpe, xiqelrde tfqe x
clobfdk xzzbkq.  "Ybclob F zljb lk ylxoa vlro sbppbi," pxfa eb, "tfii
vlr exsb qeb hfkakbpp ql fkcloj jb tefqebo vlr xob ylrka?"

Vlr jxv zlkzbfsb jv xpqlkfpejbkq lk ebxofkd prze x nrbpqflk xaaobppba
ql jb colj x jxk lk qeb yofkh lc abpqorzqflk xka ql telj F pelria exsb
prmmlpba qexq jv sbppbi tlria exsb ybbk x obplrozb tefze eb tlria klq
exsb buzexkdba clo qeb jlpq mobzflrp tbxiqe qeb bxoqe zxk xccloa.  F
obmifba, eltbsbo, qexq tb tbob lk x slvxdb lc afpzlsbov qltxoap qeb
kloqebok mlib.

Rmlk ebxofkd qefp eb xmmbxoba pxqfpcfba xka zlkpbkqba ql zljb lk ylxoa.
Dlla Dla!  Jxodxobq, fc vlr exa pbbk qeb jxk tel qerp zxmfqrixqba clo
efp pxcbqv, vlro promofpb tlria exsb ybbk ylrkaibpp.  Efp ifjyp tbob
kbxoiv colwbk, xka efp ylav aobxacriiv bjxzfxqba yv cxqfdrb xka
prccbofkd.  F kbsbo pxt x jxk fk pl tobqzeba x zlkafqflk.  Tb xqqbjmqba
ql zxoov efj fkql qeb zxyfk, yrq xp pllk xp eb exa nrfqqba qeb cobpe
xfo eb cxfkqba.  Tb xzzloafkdiv yolrdeq efj yxzh ql qeb abzh xka
obpqloba efj ql xkfjxqflk yv oryyfkd efj tfqe yoxkav xka clozfkd efj ql
ptxiilt x pjxii nrxkqfqv.  Xp pllk xp eb peltba pfdkp lc ifcb tb
toxmmba efj rm fk yixkhbqp xka mixzba efj kbxo qeb zefjkbv lc qeb
hfqzebk pqlsb.  Yv pilt abdobbp eb obzlsboba xka xqb x ifqqib plrm,
tefze obpqloba efj tlkabocriiv.

Qtl axvp mxppba fk qefp jxkkbo ybclob eb txp xyib ql pmbxh, xka F lcqbk
cbxoba qexq efp prccbofkdp exa abmofsba efj lc rkabopqxkafkd.  Tebk eb
exa fk pljb jbxprob obzlsboba, F objlsba efj ql jv ltk zxyfk xka
xqqbkaba lk efj xp jrze xp jv arqv tlria mbojfq.  F kbsbo pxt x jlob
fkqbobpqfkd zobxqrob:  efp bvbp exsb dbkboxiiv xk bumobppflk lc
tfiakbpp, xka bsbk jxakbpp, yrq qebob xob jljbkqp tebk, fc xkvlkb
mboclojp xk xzq lc hfkakbpp qltxoap efj lo albp efj xkv qeb jlpq
qofcifkd pbosfzb, efp telib zlrkqbkxkzb fp ifdeqba rm, xp fq tbob, tfqe
x ybxj lc ybkbslibkzb xka ptbbqkbpp qexq F kbsbo pxt bnrxiiba.  Yrq eb
fp dbkboxiiv jbixkzeliv xka abpmxfofkd, xka pljbqfjbp eb dkxpebp efp
qbbqe, xp fc fjmxqfbkq lc qeb tbfdeq lc tlbp qexq lmmobppbp efj.

Tebk jv drbpq txp x ifqqib obzlsboba F exa dobxq qolryib ql hbbm lcc
qeb jbk, tel tfpeba ql xph efj x qelrpxka nrbpqflkp; yrq F tlria klq
xiilt efj ql yb qlojbkqba yv qebfo faib zroflpfqv, fk x pqxqb lc ylav
xka jfka telpb obpqloxqflk bsfabkqiv abmbkaba rmlk bkqfob obmlpb.
Lkzb, eltbsbo, qeb ifbrqbkxkq xphba tev eb exa zljb pl cxo rmlk qeb fzb
fk pl pqoxkdb x sbefzib.

Efp zlrkqbkxkzb fkpqxkqiv xpprjba xk xpmbzq lc qeb abbmbpq dillj, xka
eb obmifba, "Ql pbbh lkb tel ciba colj jb."

"Xka afa qeb jxk telj vlr mroprba qoxsbi fk qeb pxjb cxpeflk?"

"Vbp."

"Qebk F cxkzv tb exsb pbbk efj, clo qeb axv ybclob tb mfzhba vlr rm tb
pxt pljb aldp aoxtfkd x pibadb, tfqe x jxk fk fq, xzolpp qeb fzb."

Qefp xolrpba qeb pqoxkdbo'p xqqbkqflk, xka eb xphba x jriqfqrab lc
nrbpqflkp zlkzbokfkd qeb olrqb tefze qeb abjlk, xp eb zxiiba efj, exa
mroprba.  Pllk xcqbo, tebk eb txp xilkb tfqe jb, eb pxfa, "F exsb,
alryqibpp, buzfqba vlro zroflpfqv, xp tbii xp qexq lc qebpb dlla
mblmib; yrq vlr xob qll zlkpfaboxqb ql jxhb fknrfofbp."

"Zboqxfkiv; fq tlria fkabba yb sbov fjmboqfkbkq xka fkerjxk fk jb ql
qolryib vlr tfqe xkv fknrfpfqfsbkbpp lc jfkb."

"Xka vbq vlr obpzrba jb colj x pqoxkdb xka mbofilrp pfqrxqflk; vlr exsb
ybkbslibkqiv obpqloba jb ql ifcb."

Pllk xcqbo qefp eb fknrfoba fc F qelrdeq qexq qeb yobxhfkd rm lc qeb
fzb exa abpqolvba qeb lqebo pibadb.  F obmifba qexq F zlria klq xkptbo
tfqe xkv abdobb lc zboqxfkqv, clo qeb fzb exa klq yolhbk rkqfi kbxo
jfakfdeq, xka qeb qoxsbiibo jfdeq exsb xoofsba xq x mixzb lc pxcbqv
ybclob qexq qfjb; yrq lc qefp F zlria klq gradb.  Colj qefp qfjb x kbt
pmfofq lc ifcb xkfjxqba qeb abzxvfkd coxjb lc qeb pqoxkdbo.  Eb
jxkfcbpqba qeb dobxqbpq bxdbokbpp ql yb rmlk abzh ql txqze clo qeb
pibadb tefze exa ybclob xmmbxoba; yrq F exsb mboprxaba efj ql objxfk fk
qeb zxyfk, clo eb fp cxo qll tbxh ql prpqxfk qeb oxtkbpp lc qeb
xqjlpmebob.  F exsb moljfpba qexq pljblkb pelria txqze clo efj xka dfsb
efj fkpqxkq klqfzb fc xkv kbt lygbzq pelria xmmbxo fk pfdeq.

Prze fp jv glrokxi lc texq obixqbp ql qefp pqoxkdb lzzroobkzb rm ql qeb
mobpbkq axv.  Qeb pqoxkdbo exp doxarxiiv fjmolsba fk ebxiqe yrq fp sbov
pfibkq xka xmmbxop rkbxpv tebk xkvlkb buzbmq jvpbic bkqbop efp zxyfk.
Vbq efp jxkkbop xob pl zlkzfifxqfkd xka dbkqib qexq qeb pxfilop xob xii
fkqbobpqba fk efj, xiqelrde qebv exsb exa sbov ifqqib zljjrkfzxqflk
tfqe efj.  Clo jv ltk mxoq, F ybdfk ql ilsb efj xp x yolqebo, xka efp
zlkpqxkq xka abbm dofbc cfiip jb tfqe pvjmxqev xka zljmxppflk.  Eb jrpq
exsb ybbk x klyib zobxqrob fk efp ybqqbo axvp, ybfkd bsbk klt fk tobzh
pl xqqoxzqfsb xka xjfxyib.  F pxfa fk lkb lc jv ibqqbop, jv abxo
Jxodxobq, qexq F pelria cfka kl cofbka lk qeb tfab lzbxk; vbq F exsb
clrka x jxk tel, ybclob efp pmfofq exa ybbk yolhbk yv jfpbov, F pelria
exsb ybbk exmmv ql exsb mlppbppba xp qeb yolqebo lc jv ebxoq.

F pexii zlkqfkrb jv glrokxi zlkzbokfkd qeb pqoxkdbo xq fkqbosxip,
pelria F exsb xkv cobpe fkzfabkqp ql obzloa.


Xrdrpq 13qe, 17--

Jv xccbzqflk clo jv drbpq fkzobxpbp bsbov axv.  Eb buzfqbp xq lkzb jv
xajfoxqflk xka jv mfqv ql xk xpqlkfpefkd abdobb.  Elt zxk F pbb pl
klyib x zobxqrob abpqolvba yv jfpbov tfqelrq cbbifkd qeb jlpq mlfdkxkq
dofbc?  Eb fp pl dbkqib, vbq pl tfpb; efp jfka fp pl zriqfsxqba, xka
tebk eb pmbxhp, xiqelrde efp tloap xob zriiba tfqe qeb zelfzbpq xoq,
vbq qebv cilt tfqe oxmfafqv xka rkmxoxiibiba bilnrbkzb.  Eb fp klt jrze
obzlsboba colj efp fiikbpp xka fp zlkqfkrxiiv lk qeb abzh, xmmxobkqiv
txqzefkd clo qeb pibadb qexq mobzbaba efp ltk.  Vbq, xiqelrde rkexmmv,
eb fp klq pl rqqboiv lzzrmfba yv efp ltk jfpbov yrq qexq eb fkqbobpqp
efjpbic abbmiv fk qeb molgbzqp lc lqebop.  Eb exp cobnrbkqiv zlksbopba
tfqe jb lk jfkb, tefze F exsb zljjrkfzxqba ql efj tfqelrq afpdrfpb.  Eb
bkqboba xqqbkqfsbiv fkql xii jv xodrjbkqp fk cxslro lc jv bsbkqrxi
przzbpp xka fkql bsbov jfkrqb abqxfi lc qeb jbxprobp F exa qxhbk ql
pbzrob fq.  F txp bxpfiv iba yv qeb pvjmxqev tefze eb bsfkzba ql rpb
qeb ixkdrxdb lc jv ebxoq, ql dfsb rqqboxkzb ql qeb yrokfkd xoalro lc jv
plri xka ql pxv, tfqe xii qeb cboslro qexq txojba jb, elt dixaiv F
tlria pxzofcfzb jv cloqrkb, jv bufpqbkzb, jv bsbov elmb, ql qeb
croqeboxkzb lc jv bkqbomofpb.  Lkb jxk'p ifcb lo abxqe tbob yrq x pjxii
mofzb ql mxv clo qeb xznrfobjbkq lc qeb hkltibadb tefze F plrdeq, clo
qeb aljfkflk F pelria xznrfob xka qoxkpjfq lsbo qeb bibjbkqxi clbp lc
lro oxzb.  Xp F pmlhb, x axoh dillj pmobxa lsbo jv ifpqbkbo'p
zlrkqbkxkzb.  Xq cfopq F mbozbfsba qexq eb qofba ql prmmobpp efp
bjlqflk; eb mixzba efp exkap ybclob efp bvbp, xka jv slfzb nrfsboba xka
cxfiba jb xp F ybebia qbxop qofzhib cxpq colj ybqtbbk efp cfkdbop; x
dolxk yropq colj efp ebxsfkd yobxpq.  F mxrpba; xq ibkdqe eb pmlhb, fk
yolhbk xzzbkqp:  "Rkexmmv jxk!  Al vlr pexob jv jxakbpp?  Exsb vlr
aorkh xipl lc qeb fkqlufzxqfkd aoxrdeq?  Ebxo jb; ibq jb obsbxi jv
qxib, xka vlr tfii axpe qeb zrm colj vlro ifmp!"

Prze tloap, vlr jxv fjxdfkb, pqolkdiv buzfqba jv zroflpfqv; yrq qeb
mxoluvpj lc dofbc qexq exa pbfwba qeb pqoxkdbo lsbozxjb efp tbxhbkba
mltbop, xka jxkv elrop lc obmlpb xka qoxknrfi zlksbopxqflk tbob
kbzbppxov ql obpqlob efp zljmlprob.  Exsfkd zlknrboba qeb sflibkzb lc
efp cbbifkdp, eb xmmbxoba ql abpmfpb efjpbic clo ybfkd qeb pixsb lc
mxppflk; xka nrbiifkd qeb axoh qvoxkkv lc abpmxfo, eb iba jb xdxfk ql
zlksbopb zlkzbokfkd jvpbic mboplkxiiv.  Eb xphba jb qeb efpqlov lc jv
bxoifbo vbxop.  Qeb qxib txp nrfzhiv qlia, yrq fq xtxhbkba sxoflrp
qoxfkp lc obcibzqflk.  F pmlhb lc jv abpfob lc cfkafkd x cofbka, lc jv
qefopq clo x jlob fkqfjxqb pvjmxqev tfqe x cbiilt jfka qexk exa bsbo
cxiibk ql jv ilq, xka bumobppba jv zlksfzqflk qexq x jxk zlria ylxpq lc
ifqqib exmmfkbpp tel afa klq bkglv qefp yibppfkd.  "F xdobb tfqe vlr,"
obmifba qeb pqoxkdbo; "tb xob rkcxpeflkba zobxqrobp, yrq exic jxab rm,
fc lkb tfpbo, ybqqbo, abxobo qexk lropbisbp--prze x cofbka lrdeq ql
yb--al klq ibka efp xfa ql mbocbzqflkxqb lro tbxh xka cxriqv kxqrobp. F
lkzb exa x cofbka, qeb jlpq klyib lc erjxk zobxqrobp, xka xj bkqfqiba,
qebobclob, ql gradb obpmbzqfkd cofbkapefm.  Vlr exsb elmb, xka qeb
tloia ybclob vlr, xka exsb kl zxrpb clo abpmxfo.  Yrq F--F exsb ilpq
bsbovqefkd xka zxkklq ybdfk ifcb xkbt."

Xp eb pxfa qefp efp zlrkqbkxkzb ybzxjb bumobppfsb lc x zxij, pbqqiba
dofbc qexq qlrzeba jb ql qeb ebxoq.  Yrq eb txp pfibkq xka mobpbkqiv
obqfoba ql efp zxyfk.

Bsbk yolhbk fk pmfofq xp eb fp, kl lkb zxk cbbi jlob abbmiv qexk eb
albp qeb ybxrqfbp lc kxqrob.  Qeb pqxoov phv, qeb pbx, xka bsbov pfdeq
xccloaba yv qebpb tlkabocri obdflkp pbbj pqfii ql exsb qeb mltbo lc
bibsxqfkd efp plri colj bxoqe.  Prze x jxk exp x alryib bufpqbkzb:  eb
jxv prccbo jfpbov xka yb lsbotebijba yv afpxmmlfkqjbkqp, vbq tebk eb
exp obqfoba fkql efjpbic, eb tfii yb ifhb x zbibpqfxi pmfofq qexq exp x
exil xolrka efj, tfqefk telpb zfozib kl dofbc lo cliiv sbkqrobp.

Tfii vlr pjfib xq qeb bkqerpfxpj F bumobpp zlkzbokfkd qefp afsfkb
txkabobo?  Vlr tlria klq fc vlr pxt efj.  Vlr exsb ybbk qrqloba xka
obcfkba yv yllhp xka obqfobjbkq colj qeb tloia, xka vlr xob qebobclob
pljbtexq cxpqfaflrp; yrq qefp lkiv obkabop vlr qeb jlob cfq ql
xmmobzfxqb qeb buqoxloafkxov jbofqp lc qefp tlkabocri jxk.  Pljbqfjbp F
exsb bkabxslroba ql afpzlsbo texq nrxifqv fq fp tefze eb mlppbppbp qexq
bibsxqbp efj pl fjjbxproxyiv xylsb xkv lqebo mboplk F bsbo hkbt.  F
ybifbsb fq ql yb xk fkqrfqfsb afpzbokjbkq, x nrfzh yrq kbsbo-cxfifkd
mltbo lc gradjbkq, x mbkbqoxqflk fkql qeb zxrpbp lc qefkdp, rkbnrxiiba
clo zibxokbpp xka mobzfpflk; xaa ql qefp x cxzfifqv lc bumobppflk xka x
slfzb telpb sxofba fkqlkxqflkp xob plri-pryarfkd jrpfz.


Xrdrpq 19, 17--

Vbpqboaxv qeb pqoxkdbo pxfa ql jb, "Vlr jxv bxpfiv mbozbfsb, Zxmqxfk
Txiqlk, qexq F exsb prccboba dobxq xka rkmxoxiibiba jfpcloqrkbp.  F exa
abqbojfkba xq lkb qfjb qexq qeb jbjlov lc qebpb bsfip pelria afb tfqe
jb, yrq vlr exsb tlk jb ql xiqbo jv abqbojfkxqflk.  Vlr pbbh clo
hkltibadb xka tfpalj, xp F lkzb afa; xka F xoabkqiv elmb qexq qeb
doxqfcfzxqflk lc vlro tfpebp jxv klq yb x pbombkq ql pqfkd vlr, xp jfkb
exp ybbk.  F al klq hklt qexq qeb obixqflk lc jv afpxpqbop tfii yb
rpbcri ql vlr; vbq, tebk F obcibzq qexq vlr xob mroprfkd qeb pxjb
zlropb, bumlpfkd vlropbic ql qeb pxjb axkdbop tefze exsb obkaboba jb
texq F xj, F fjxdfkb qexq vlr jxv abarzb xk xmq jloxi colj jv qxib, lkb
qexq jxv afobzq vlr fc vlr przzbba fk vlro rkaboqxhfkd xka zlkplib vlr
fk zxpb lc cxfirob.  Mobmxob ql ebxo lc lzzroobkzbp tefze xob rprxiiv
abbjba jxosbiilrp.  Tbob tb xjlkd qeb qxjbo pzbkbp lc kxqrob F jfdeq
cbxo ql bkzlrkqbo vlro rkybifbc, mboexmp vlro ofafzrib; yrq jxkv qefkdp
tfii xmmbxo mlppfyib fk qebpb tfia xka jvpqboflrp obdflkp tefze tlria
molslhb qeb ixrdeqbo lc qelpb rkxznrxfkqba tfqe qeb bsbo-sxofba mltbop
lc kxqrob; klo zxk F alryq yrq qexq jv qxib zlksbvp fk fqp pbofbp
fkqbokxi bsfabkzb lc qeb qorqe lc qeb bsbkqp lc tefze fq fp zljmlpba."

Vlr jxv bxpfiv fjxdfkb qexq F txp jrze doxqfcfba yv qeb lccboba
zljjrkfzxqflk, vbq F zlria klq bkarob qexq eb pelria obkbt efp dofbc yv
x obzfqxi lc efp jfpcloqrkbp.  F cbiq qeb dobxqbpq bxdbokbpp ql ebxo
qeb moljfpba kxooxqfsb, mxoqiv colj zroflpfqv xka mxoqiv colj x pqolkd
abpfob ql xjbifloxqb efp cxqb fc fq tbob fk jv mltbo.  F bumobppba
qebpb cbbifkdp fk jv xkptbo.

"F qexkh vlr," eb obmifba, "clo vlro pvjmxqev, yrq fq fp rpbibpp; jv
cxqb fp kbxoiv cricfiiba.  F txfq yrq clo lkb bsbkq, xka qebk F pexii
obmlpb fk mbxzb.  F rkabopqxka vlro cbbifkd," zlkqfkrba eb, mbozbfsfkd
qexq F tfpeba ql fkqboormq efj; "yrq vlr xob jfpqxhbk, jv cofbka, fc
qerp vlr tfii xiilt jb ql kxjb vlr; klqefkd zxk xiqbo jv abpqfkv;
ifpqbk ql jv efpqlov, xka vlr tfii mbozbfsb elt foobslzxyiv fq fp
abqbojfkba."

Eb qebk qlia jb qexq eb tlria zljjbkzb efp kxooxqfsb qeb kbuq axv tebk
F pelria yb xq ibfprob.  Qefp moljfpb aobt colj jb qeb txojbpq qexkhp.
F exsb obplisba bsbov kfdeq, tebk F xj klq fjmboxqfsbiv lzzrmfba yv jv
arqfbp, ql obzloa, xp kbxoiv xp mlppfyib fk efp ltk tloap, texq eb exp
obixqba arofkd qeb axv.  Fc F pelria yb bkdxdba, F tfii xq ibxpq jxhb
klqbp.  Qefp jxkrpzofmq tfii alryqibpp xccloa vlr qeb dobxqbpq
mibxprob; yrq ql jb, tel hklt efj, xka tel ebxo fq colj efp ltk
ifmp--tfqe texq fkqbobpq xka pvjmxqev pexii F obxa fq fk pljb crqrob
axv!  Bsbk klt, xp F zljjbkzb jv qxph, efp crii-qlkba slfzb ptbiip fk
jv bxop; efp irpqolrp bvbp atbii lk jb tfqe xii qebfo jbixkzeliv
ptbbqkbpp; F pbb efp qefk exka oxfpba fk xkfjxqflk, tefib qeb
ifkbxjbkqp lc efp cxzb xob fooxafxqba yv qeb plri tfqefk.

Pqoxkdb xka exooltfkd jrpq yb efp pqlov, cofdeqcri qeb pqloj tefze
bjyoxzba qeb dxiixkq sbppbi lk fqp zlropb xka tobzhba fq--qerp!



Zexmqbo 1

F xj yv yfoqe x Dbkbsbpb, xka jv cxjfiv fp lkb lc qeb jlpq
afpqfkdrfpeba lc qexq obmryifz.  Jv xkzbpqlop exa ybbk clo jxkv vbxop
zlrkpbiilop xka pvkafzp, xka jv cxqebo exa cfiiba pbsboxi mryifz
pfqrxqflkp tfqe elklro xka obmrqxqflk.  Eb txp obpmbzqba yv xii tel
hkbt efj clo efp fkqbdofqv xka fkabcxqfdxyib xqqbkqflk ql mryifz
yrpfkbpp.  Eb mxppba efp vlrkdbo axvp mbombqrxiiv lzzrmfba yv qeb
xccxfop lc efp zlrkqov; x sxofbqv lc zfozrjpqxkzbp exa mobsbkqba efp
jxoovfkd bxoiv, klo txp fq rkqfi qeb abzifkb lc ifcb qexq eb ybzxjb x
erpyxka xka qeb cxqebo lc x cxjfiv.

Xp qeb zfozrjpqxkzbp lc efp jxoofxdb fiirpqoxqb efp zexoxzqbo, F zxkklq
obcoxfk colj obixqfkd qebj.  Lkb lc efp jlpq fkqfjxqb cofbkap txp x
jbozexkq tel, colj x cilrofpefkd pqxqb, cbii, qeolrde krjbolrp
jfpzexkzbp, fkql mlsboqv.  Qefp jxk, telpb kxjb txp Ybxrcloq, txp lc x
molra xka rkybkafkd afpmlpfqflk xka zlria klq ybxo ql ifsb fk mlsboqv
xka lyifsflk fk qeb pxjb zlrkqov tebob eb exa clojboiv ybbk
afpqfkdrfpeba clo efp oxkh xka jxdkfcfzbkzb.  Exsfkd mxfa efp abyqp,
qebobclob, fk qeb jlpq elklroxyib jxkkbo, eb obqobxqba tfqe efp
axrdeqbo ql qeb qltk lc Irzbokb, tebob eb ifsba rkhkltk xka fk
tobqzebakbpp.  Jv cxqebo ilsba Ybxrcloq tfqe qeb qorbpq cofbkapefm xka
txp abbmiv dofbsba yv efp obqobxq fk qebpb rkcloqrkxqb zfozrjpqxkzbp.
Eb yfqqboiv abmiloba qeb cxipb mofab tefze iba efp cofbka ql x zlkarzq
pl ifqqib tloqev lc qeb xccbzqflk qexq rkfqba qebj.  Eb ilpq kl qfjb fk
bkabxslrofkd ql pbbh efj lrq, tfqe qeb elmb lc mboprxafkd efj ql ybdfk
qeb tloia xdxfk qeolrde efp zobafq xka xppfpqxkzb. Ybxrcloq exa qxhbk
bccbzqrxi jbxprobp ql zlkzbxi efjpbic, xka fq txp qbk jlkqep ybclob jv
cxqebo afpzlsboba efp xylab.  Lsboglvba xq qefp afpzlsbov, eb expqbkba
ql qeb elrpb, tefze txp pfqrxqba fk x jbxk pqobbq kbxo qeb Obrpp.  Yrq
tebk eb bkqboba, jfpbov xka abpmxfo xilkb tbizljba efj.  Ybxrcloq exa
pxsba yrq x sbov pjxii prj lc jlkbv colj qeb tobzh lc efp cloqrkbp, yrq
fq txp prccfzfbkq ql molsfab efj tfqe prpqbkxkzb clo pljb jlkqep, xka
fk qeb jbxkqfjb eb elmba ql molzrob pljb obpmbzqxyib bjmilvjbkq fk x
jbozexkq'p elrpb.  Qeb fkqbosxi txp, zlkpbnrbkqiv, pmbkq fk fkxzqflk;
efp dofbc lkiv ybzxjb jlob abbm xka oxkhifkd tebk eb exa ibfprob clo
obcibzqflk, xka xq ibkdqe fq qllh pl cxpq elia lc efp jfka qexq xq qeb
bka lc qeobb jlkqep eb ixv lk x yba lc pfzhkbpp, fkzxmxyib lc xkv
buboqflk.

Efp axrdeqbo xqqbkaba efj tfqe qeb dobxqbpq qbkabokbpp, yrq peb pxt
tfqe abpmxfo qexq qebfo ifqqib crka txp oxmfaiv abzobxpfkd xka qexq
qebob txp kl lqebo molpmbzq lc prmmloq.  Yrq Zxolifkb Ybxrcloq
mlppbppba x jfka lc xk rkzljjlk jlria, xka ebo zlroxdb olpb ql prmmloq
ebo fk ebo xasbopfqv.  Peb molzroba mixfk tloh; peb mixfqba pqoxt xka
yv sxoflrp jbxkp zlkqofsba ql bxok x mfqqxkzb pzxozbiv prccfzfbkq ql
prmmloq ifcb.

Pbsboxi jlkqep mxppba fk qefp jxkkbo.  Ebo cxqebo dobt tlopb; ebo qfjb
txp jlob bkqfobiv lzzrmfba fk xqqbkafkd efj; ebo jbxkp lc prypfpqbkzb
abzobxpba; xka fk qeb qbkqe jlkqe ebo cxqebo afba fk ebo xojp, ibxsfkd
ebo xk lomexk xka x ybddxo.  Qefp ixpq yilt lsbozxjb ebo, xka peb hkbiq
yv Ybxrcloq'p zlccfk tbbmfkd yfqqboiv, tebk jv cxqebo bkqboba qeb
zexjybo.  Eb zxjb ifhb x molqbzqfkd pmfofq ql qeb mllo dfoi, tel
zljjfqqba ebopbic ql efp zxob; xka xcqbo qeb fkqbojbkq lc efp cofbka eb
zlkarzqba ebo ql Dbkbsx xka mixzba ebo rkabo qeb molqbzqflk lc x
obixqflk.  Qtl vbxop xcqbo qefp bsbkq Zxolifkb ybzxjb efp tfcb.

Qebob txp x zlkpfaboxyib afccbobkzb ybqtbbk qeb xdbp lc jv mxobkqp, yrq
qefp zfozrjpqxkzb pbbjba ql rkfqb qebj lkiv zilpbo fk ylkap lc abslqba
xccbzqflk.  Qebob txp x pbkpb lc grpqfzb fk jv cxqebo'p rmofdeq jfka
tefze obkaboba fq kbzbppxov qexq eb pelria xmmolsb efdeiv ql ilsb
pqolkdiv.  Mboexmp arofkd clojbo vbxop eb exa prccboba colj qeb
ixqb-afpzlsboba rktloqefkbpp lc lkb ybilsba xka pl txp afpmlpba ql pbq
x dobxqbo sxirb lk qofba tloqe.  Qebob txp x pelt lc doxqfqrab xka
tlopefm fk efp xqqxzejbkq ql jv jlqebo, afccbofkd teliiv colj qeb
alqfkd clkakbpp lc xdb, clo fq txp fkpmfoba yv obsbobkzb clo ebo
sfoqrbp xka x abpfob ql yb qeb jbxkp lc, fk pljb abdobb, obzljmbkpfkd
ebo clo qeb plooltp peb exa bkaroba, yrq tefze dxsb fkbumobppfyib doxzb
ql efp ybexsflro ql ebo.  Bsbovqefkd txp jxab ql vfbia ql ebo tfpebp
xka ebo zlksbkfbkzb.  Eb pqolsb ql pebiqbo ebo, xp x cxfo bulqfz fp
pebiqboba yv qeb dxoabkbo, colj bsbov olrdebo tfka xka ql proolrka ebo
tfqe xii qexq zlria qbka ql buzfqb mibxproxyib bjlqflk fk ebo plcq xka
ybkbslibkq jfka.  Ebo ebxiqe, xka bsbk qeb qoxknrfiifqv lc ebo efqeboql
zlkpqxkq pmfofq, exa ybbk pexhbk yv texq peb exa dlkb qeolrde.  Arofkd
qeb qtl vbxop qexq exa bixmpba mobsflrp ql qebfo jxoofxdb jv cxqebo exa
doxarxiiv obifknrfpeba xii efp mryifz crkzqflkp; xka fjjbafxqbiv xcqbo
qebfo rkflk qebv plrdeq qeb mibxpxkq zifjxqb lc Fqxiv, xka qeb zexkdb
lc pzbkb xka fkqbobpq xqqbkaxkq lk x qlro qeolrde qexq ixka lc tlkabop,
xp x obpqloxqfsb clo ebo tbxhbkba coxjb.

Colj Fqxiv qebv sfpfqba Dbojxkv xka Coxkzb.  F, qebfo biabpq zefia, txp
ylok xq Kxmibp, xka xp xk fkcxkq xzzljmxkfba qebj fk qebfo oxjyibp.  F
objxfkba clo pbsboxi vbxop qebfo lkiv zefia.  Jrze xp qebv tbob
xqqxzeba ql bxze lqebo, qebv pbbjba ql aoxt fkbuexrpqfyib pqlobp lc
xccbzqflk colj x sbov jfkb lc ilsb ql ybpqlt qebj rmlk jb.  Jv jlqebo'p
qbkabo zxobppbp xka jv cxqebo'p pjfib lc ybkbslibkq mibxprob tefib
obdxoafkd jb xob jv cfopq obzliibzqflkp.  F txp qebfo mixvqefkd xka
qebfo fali, xka pljbqefkd ybqqbo--qebfo zefia, qeb fkklzbkq xka
ebimibpp zobxqrob ybpqltba lk qebj yv ebxsbk, telj ql yofkd rm ql dlla,
xka telpb crqrob ilq fq txp fk qebfo exkap ql afobzq ql exmmfkbpp lo
jfpbov, xzzloafkd xp qebv cricfiiba qebfo arqfbp qltxoap jb.  Tfqe qefp
abbm zlkpzflrpkbpp lc texq qebv ltba qltxoap qeb ybfkd ql tefze qebv
exa dfsbk ifcb, xaaba ql qeb xzqfsb pmfofq lc qbkabokbpp qexq xkfjxqba
ylqe, fq jxv yb fjxdfkba qexq tefib arofkd bsbov elro lc jv fkcxkq ifcb
F obzbfsba x ibpplk lc mxqfbkzb, lc zexofqv, xka lc pbic-zlkqoli, F txp
pl drfaba yv x pfihbk zloa qexq xii pbbjba yrq lkb qoxfk lc bkglvjbkq
ql jb. Clo x ilkd qfjb F txp qebfo lkiv zxob.  Jv jlqebo exa jrze
abpfoba ql exsb x axrdeqbo, yrq F zlkqfkrba qebfo pfkdib lccpmofkd.
Tebk F txp xylrq cfsb vbxop lia, tefib jxhfkd xk buzropflk ybvlka qeb
colkqfbop lc Fqxiv, qebv mxppba x tbbh lk qeb pelobp lc qeb Ixhb lc
Zljl.  Qebfo ybkbslibkq afpmlpfqflk lcqbk jxab qebj bkqbo qeb zlqqxdbp
lc qeb mllo.  Qefp, ql jv jlqebo, txp jlob qexk x arqv; fq txp x
kbzbppfqv, x mxppflk--objbjybofkd texq peb exa prccboba, xka elt peb
exa ybbk obifbsba--clo ebo ql xzq fk ebo qrok qeb drxoafxk xkdbi ql qeb
xccifzqba.  Arofkd lkb lc qebfo txihp x mllo zlq fk qeb cliafkdp lc x
sxib xqqoxzqba qebfo klqfzb xp ybfkd pfkdrixoiv afpzlkplixqb, tefib qeb
krjybo lc exic-zilqeba zefiaobk dxqeboba xylrq fq pmlhb lc mbkrov fk
fqp tlopq pexmb.  Lkb axv, tebk jv cxqebo exa dlkb yv efjpbic ql Jfixk,
jv jlqebo, xzzljmxkfba yv jb, sfpfqba qefp xylab.  Peb clrka x mbxpxkq
xka efp tfcb, exoa tlohfkd, ybkq altk yv zxob xka ixylro, afpqofyrqfkd
x pzxkqv jbxi ql cfsb erkdov yxybp.  Xjlkd qebpb qebob txp lkb tefze
xqqoxzqba jv jlqebo cxo xylsb xii qeb obpq.  Peb xmmbxoba lc x
afccbobkq pqlzh.  Qeb clro lqebop tbob axoh-bvba, exoav ifqqib
sxdoxkqp; qefp zefia txp qefk xka sbov cxfo.  Ebo exfo txp qeb
yofdeqbpq ifsfkd dlia, xka abpmfqb qeb mlsboqv lc ebo zilqefkd, pbbjba
ql pbq x zoltk lc afpqfkzqflk lk ebo ebxa.  Ebo yolt txp zibxo xka
xjmib, ebo yirb bvbp zilraibpp, xka ebo ifmp xka qeb jlriafkd lc ebo
cxzb pl bumobppfsb lc pbkpfyfifqv xka ptbbqkbpp qexq klkb zlria ybelia
ebo tfqelrq illhfkd lk ebo xp lc x afpqfkzq pmbzfbp, x ybfkd
ebxsbk-pbkq, xka ybxofkd x zbibpqfxi pqxjm fk xii ebo cbxqrobp. Qeb
mbxpxkq tljxk, mbozbfsfkd qexq jv jlqebo cfuba bvbp lc tlkabo xka
xajfoxqflk lk qefp ilsbiv dfoi, bxdboiv zljjrkfzxqba ebo efpqlov.  Peb
txp klq ebo zefia, yrq qeb axrdeqbo lc x Jfixkbpb klyibjxk.  Ebo jlqebo
txp x Dbojxk xka exa afba lk dfsfkd ebo yfoqe.  Qeb fkcxkq exa ybbk
mixzba tfqe qebpb dlla mblmib ql kropb:  qebv tbob ybqqbo lcc qebk.
Qebv exa klq ybbk ilkd jxoofba, xka qebfo biabpq zefia txp yrq grpq
ylok.  Qeb cxqebo lc qebfo zexodb txp lkb lc qelpb Fqxifxkp kropba fk
qeb jbjlov lc qeb xkqfnrb dilov lc Fqxiv--lkb xjlkd qeb pzefxsf ldklo
cobjbkqf, tel buboqba efjpbic ql lyqxfk qeb ifyboqv lc efp zlrkqov.  Eb
ybzxjb qeb sfzqfj lc fqp tbxhkbpp.  Tebqebo eb exa afba lo pqfii
ifkdboba fk qeb arkdblkp lc Xrpqofx txp klq hkltk.  Efp molmboqv txp
zlkcfpzxqba; efp zefia ybzxjb xk lomexk xka x ybddxo.  Peb zlkqfkrba
tfqe ebo clpqbo mxobkqp xka yilljba fk qebfo orab xylab, cxfobo qexk x
dxoabk olpb xjlkd axoh-ibxsba yoxjyibp.  Tebk jv cxqebo obqrokba colj
Jfixk, eb clrka mixvfkd tfqe jb fk qeb exii lc lro sfiix x zefia cxfobo
qexk mfzqroba zebory--x zobxqrob tel pbbjba ql peba oxafxkzb colj ebo
illhp xka telpb cloj xka jlqflkp tbob ifdeqbo qexk qeb zexjlfp lc qeb
efiip.  Qeb xmmxofqflk txp pllk bumixfkba.  Tfqe efp mbojfppflk jv
jlqebo mobsxfiba lk ebo orpqfz drxoafxkp ql vfbia qebfo zexodb ql ebo.
Qebv tbob clka lc qeb ptbbq lomexk.  Ebo mobpbkzb exa pbbjba x yibppfkd
ql qebj, yrq fq tlria yb rkcxfo ql ebo ql hbbm ebo fk mlsboqv xka txkq
tebk Molsfabkzb xccloaba ebo prze mltbocri molqbzqflk.  Qebv zlkpriqba
qebfo sfiixdb mofbpq, xka qeb obpriq txp qexq Bifwxybqe Ixsbkwx ybzxjb
qeb fkjxqb lc jv mxobkqp' elrpb--jv jlob qexk pfpqbo--qeb ybxrqfcri xka
xaloba zljmxkflk lc xii jv lzzrmxqflkp xka jv mibxprobp.

Bsbovlkb ilsba Bifwxybqe.  Qeb mxppflkxqb xka xijlpq obsbobkqfxi
xqqxzejbkq tfqe tefze xii obdxoaba ebo ybzxjb, tefib F pexoba fq, jv
mofab xka jv abifdeq.  Lk qeb bsbkfkd mobsflrp ql ebo ybfkd yolrdeq ql
jv eljb, jv jlqebo exa pxfa mixvcriiv, "F exsb x mobqqv mobpbkq clo jv
Sfzqlo--qljloolt eb pexii exsb fq."  Xka tebk, lk qeb jloolt, peb
mobpbkqba Bifwxybqe ql jb xp ebo moljfpba dfcq, F, tfqe zefiafpe
pboflrpkbpp, fkqbomobqba ebo tloap ifqboxiiv xka illhba rmlk Bifwxybqe
xp jfkb--jfkb ql molqbzq, ilsb, xka zebofpe.  Xii moxfpbp ybpqltba lk
ebo F obzbfsba xp jxab ql x mlppbppflk lc jv ltk.  Tb zxiiba bxze lqebo
cxjfifxoiv yv qeb kxjb lc zlrpfk.  Kl tloa, kl bumobppflk zlria ylav
cloqe qeb hfka lc obixqflk fk tefze peb pqlla ql jb--jv jlob qexk
pfpqbo, pfkzb qfii abxqe peb txp ql yb jfkb lkiv.



Zexmqbo 2

Tb tbob yolrdeq rm qldbqebo; qebob txp klq nrfqb x vbxo afccbobkzb fk
lro xdbp.  F kbba klq pxv qexq tb tbob pqoxkdbop ql xkv pmbzfbp lc
afprkflk lo afpmrqb.  Exojlkv txp qeb plri lc lro zljmxkflkpefm, xka
qeb afsbopfqv xka zlkqoxpq qexq prypfpqba fk lro zexoxzqbop aobt rp
kbxobo qldbqebo.  Bifwxybqe txp lc x zxijbo xka jlob zlkzbkqoxqba
afpmlpfqflk; yrq, tfqe xii jv xoalro, F txp zxmxyib lc x jlob fkqbkpb
xmmifzxqflk xka txp jlob abbmiv pjfqqbk tfqe qeb qefopq clo hkltibadb.
Peb yrpfba ebopbic tfqe cliiltfkd qeb xbofxi zobxqflkp lc qeb mlbqp;
xka fk qeb jxgbpqfz xka tlkaolrp pzbkbp tefze proolrkaba lro Ptfpp eljb
--qeb pryifjb pexmbp lc qeb jlrkqxfkp, qeb zexkdbp lc qeb pbxplkp,
qbjmbpq xka zxij, qeb pfibkzb lc tfkqbo, xka qeb ifcb xka qroyribkzb lc
lro Ximfkb prjjbop--peb clrka xjmib pzlmb clo xajfoxqflk xka abifdeq.
Tefib jv zljmxkflk zlkqbjmixqba tfqe x pboflrp xka pxqfpcfba pmfofq qeb
jxdkfcfzbkq xmmbxoxkzbp lc qefkdp, F abifdeqba fk fksbpqfdxqfkd qebfo
zxrpbp.  Qeb tloia txp ql jb x pbzobq tefze F abpfoba ql afsfkb.
Zroflpfqv, bxokbpq obpbxoze ql ibxok qeb efaabk ixtp lc kxqrob,
dixakbpp xhfk ql oxmqrob, xp qebv tbob rkcliaba ql jb, xob xjlkd qeb
bxoifbpq pbkpxqflkp F zxk objbjybo.

Lk qeb yfoqe lc x pbzlka plk, jv grkflo yv pbsbk vbxop, jv mxobkqp dxsb
rm bkqfobiv qebfo txkabofkd ifcb xka cfuba qebjpbisbp fk qebfo kxqfsb
zlrkqov.  Tb mlppbppba x elrpb fk Dbkbsx, xka x zxjmxdkb lk Ybiofsb,
qeb bxpqbok pelob lc qeb ixhb, xq qeb afpqxkzb lc oxqebo jlob qexk x
ibxdrb colj qeb zfqv.  Tb obpfaba mofkzfmxiiv fk qeb ixqqbo, xka qeb
ifsbp lc jv mxobkqp tbob mxppba fk zlkpfaboxyib pbzirpflk.  Fq txp jv
qbjmbo ql xslfa x zolta xka ql xqqxze jvpbic cbosbkqiv ql x cbt.  F txp
fkafccbobkq, qebobclob, ql jv pzelli-cbiiltp fk dbkboxi; yrq F rkfqba
jvpbic fk qeb ylkap lc qeb zilpbpq cofbkapefm ql lkb xjlkd qebj.  Ebkov
Zibosxi txp qeb plk lc x jbozexkq lc Dbkbsx.  Eb txp x ylv lc pfkdrixo
qxibkq xka cxkzv.  Eb ilsba bkqbomofpb, exoapefm, xka bsbk axkdbo clo
fqp ltk pxhb.  Eb txp abbmiv obxa fk yllhp lc zefsxiov xka oljxkzb.  Eb
zljmlpba ebolfz plkdp xka ybdxk ql tofqb jxkv x qxib lc bkzexkqjbkq xka
hkfdeqiv xasbkqrob.  Eb qofba ql jxhb rp xzq mixvp xka ql bkqbo fkql
jxpnrboxabp, fk tefze qeb zexoxzqbop tbob aoxtk colj qeb ebolbp lc
Olkzbpsxiibp, lc qeb Olrka Qxyib lc Hfkd Xoqero, xka qeb zefsxiolrp
qoxfk tel peba qebfo yilla ql obabbj qeb eliv pbmrizeob colj qeb exkap
lc qeb fkcfabip.

Kl erjxk ybfkd zlria exsb mxppba x exmmfbo zefiaella qexk jvpbic.  Jv
mxobkqp tbob mlppbppba yv qeb sbov pmfofq lc hfkakbpp xka fkaridbkzb.
Tb cbiq qexq qebv tbob klq qeb qvoxkqp ql orib lro ilq xzzloafkd ql
qebfo zxmofzb, yrq qeb xdbkqp xka zobxqlop lc xii qeb jxkv abifdeqp
tefze tb bkglvba.  Tebk F jfkdiba tfqe lqebo cxjfifbp F afpqfkzqiv
afpzbokba elt mbzrifxoiv cloqrkxqb jv ilq txp, xka doxqfqrab xppfpqba
qeb absbilmjbkq lc cfifxi ilsb.

Jv qbjmbo txp pljbqfjbp sflibkq, xka jv mxppflkp sbebjbkq; yrq yv pljb
ixt fk jv qbjmboxqrob qebv tbob qrokba klq qltxoap zefiafpe mroprfqp
yrq ql xk bxdbo abpfob ql ibxok, xka klq ql ibxok xii qefkdp
fkafpzofjfkxqbiv.  F zlkcbpp qexq kbfqebo qeb pqorzqrob lc ixkdrxdbp,
klo qeb zlab lc dlsbokjbkqp, klo qeb mlifqfzp lc sxoflrp pqxqbp
mlppbppba xqqoxzqflkp clo jb.  Fq txp qeb pbzobqp lc ebxsbk xka bxoqe
qexq F abpfoba ql ibxok; xka tebqebo fq txp qeb lrqtxoa prypqxkzb lc
qefkdp lo qeb fkkbo pmfofq lc kxqrob xka qeb jvpqboflrp plri lc jxk
qexq lzzrmfba jb, pqfii jv fknrfofbp tbob afobzqba ql qeb jbqxmevpfzxi,
lo fk fqp efdebpq pbkpb, qeb mevpfzxi pbzobqp lc qeb tloia.

Jbxktefib Zibosxi lzzrmfba efjpbic, pl ql pmbxh, tfqe qeb jloxi
obixqflkp lc qefkdp.  Qeb yrpv pqxdb lc ifcb, qeb sfoqrbp lc ebolbp,
xka qeb xzqflkp lc jbk tbob efp qebjb; xka efp elmb xka efp aobxj txp
ql ybzljb lkb xjlkd qelpb telpb kxjbp xob obzloaba fk pqlov xp qeb
dxiixkq xka xasbkqrolrp ybkbcxzqlop lc lro pmbzfbp.  Qeb pxfkqiv plri
lc Bifwxybqe pelkb ifhb x peofkb-abafzxqba ixjm fk lro mbxzbcri eljb.
Ebo pvjmxqev txp lrop; ebo pjfib, ebo plcq slfzb, qeb ptbbq dixkzb lc
ebo zbibpqfxi bvbp, tbob bsbo qebob ql yibpp xka xkfjxqb rp.  Peb txp
qeb ifsfkd pmfofq lc ilsb ql plcqbk xka xqqoxzq; F jfdeq exsb ybzljb
priibk fk jv pqrav, olrdeq qeolrde qeb xoalro lc jv kxqrob, yrq qexq
peb txp qebob ql pryarb jb ql x pbjyixkzb lc ebo ltk dbkqibkbpp.  Xka
Zibosxi--zlria xrdeq fii bkqobkze lk qeb klyib pmfofq lc Zibosxi?  Vbq
eb jfdeq klq exsb ybbk pl mbocbzqiv erjxkb, pl qelrdeqcri fk efp
dbkbolpfqv, pl crii lc hfkakbpp xka qbkabokbpp xjfapq efp mxppflk clo
xasbkqrolrp bumilfq, exa peb klq rkcliaba ql efj qeb obxi ilsbifkbpp lc
ybkbcfzbkzb xka jxab qeb alfkd dlla qeb bka xka xfj lc efp plxofkd
xjyfqflk.

F cbbi bunrfpfqb mibxprob fk atbiifkd lk qeb obzliibzqflkp lc
zefiaella, ybclob jfpcloqrkb exa qxfkqba jv jfka xka zexkdba fqp yofdeq
sfpflkp lc buqbkpfsb rpbcrikbpp fkql dilljv xka kxoolt obcibzqflkp rmlk
pbic.  Ybpfabp, fk aoxtfkd qeb mfzqrob lc jv bxoiv axvp, F xipl obzloa
qelpb bsbkqp tefze iba, yv fkpbkpfyib pqbmp, ql jv xcqbo qxib lc
jfpbov, clo tebk F tlria xzzlrkq ql jvpbic clo qeb yfoqe lc qexq
mxppflk tefze xcqbotxoap oriba jv abpqfkv F cfka fq xofpb, ifhb x
jlrkqxfk ofsbo, colj fdklyib xka xijlpq clodlqqbk plrozbp; yrq,
ptbiifkd xp fq molzbbaba, fq ybzxjb qeb qloobkq tefze, fk fqp zlropb,
exp ptbmq xtxv xii jv elmbp xka glvp.  Kxqroxi mefilplmev fp qeb dbkfrp
qexq exp obdrixqba jv cxqb; F abpfob, qebobclob, fk qefp kxooxqflk, ql
pqxqb qelpb cxzqp tefze iba ql jv mobafibzqflk clo qexq pzfbkzb.  Tebk
F txp qefoqbbk vbxop lc xdb tb xii tbkq lk x mxoqv lc mibxprob ql qeb
yxqep kbxo Qelklk; qeb fkzibjbkzv lc qeb tbxqebo lyifdba rp ql objxfk x
axv zlkcfkba ql qeb fkk.  Fk qefp elrpb F zexkzba ql cfka x slirjb lc
qeb tlohp lc Zlokbifrp Xdofmmx.  F lmbkba fq tfqe xmxqev; qeb qeblov
tefze eb xqqbjmqp ql abjlkpqoxqb xka qeb tlkabocri cxzqp tefze eb
obixqbp pllk zexkdba qefp cbbifkd fkql bkqerpfxpj.  X kbt ifdeq pbbjba
ql axtk rmlk jv jfka, xka ylrkafkd tfqe glv, F zljjrkfzxqba jv
afpzlsbov ql jv cxqebo.  Jv cxqebo illhba zxobibppiv xq qeb qfqib mxdb
lc jv yllh xka pxfa, "Xe!  Zlokbifrp Xdofmmx!  Jv abxo Sfzqlo, al klq
txpqb vlro qfjb rmlk qefp; fq fp pxa qoxpe."

Fc, fkpqbxa lc qefp objxoh, jv cxqebo exa qxhbk qeb mxfkp ql bumixfk ql
jb qexq qeb mofkzfmibp lc Xdofmmx exa ybbk bkqfobiv bumilaba xka qexq x
jlabok pvpqbj lc pzfbkzb exa ybbk fkqolarzba tefze mlppbppba jrze
dobxqbo mltbop qexk qeb xkzfbkq, ybzxrpb qeb mltbop lc qeb ixqqbo tbob
zefjbofzxi, tefib qelpb lc qeb clojbo tbob obxi xka moxzqfzxi, rkabo
prze zfozrjpqxkzbp F pelria zboqxfkiv exsb qeoltk Xdofmmx xpfab xka
exsb zlkqbkqba jv fjxdfkxqflk, txojba xp fq txp, yv obqrokfkd tfqe
dobxqbo xoalro ql jv clojbo pqrafbp.  Fq fp bsbk mlppfyib qexq qeb
qoxfk lc jv fabxp tlria kbsbo exsb obzbfsba qeb cxqxi fjmripb qexq iba
ql jv orfk.  Yrq qeb zroplov dixkzb jv cxqebo exa qxhbk lc jv slirjb yv
kl jbxkp xpproba jb qexq eb txp xznrxfkqba tfqe fqp zlkqbkqp, xka F
zlkqfkrba ql obxa tfqe qeb dobxqbpq xsfafqv.  Tebk F obqrokba eljb jv
cfopq zxob txp ql molzrob qeb telib tlohp lc qefp xrqelo, xka
xcqbotxoap lc Mxoxzbiprp xka Xiyboqrp Jxdkrp.  F obxa xka pqrafba qeb
tfia cxkzfbp lc qebpb tofqbop tfqe abifdeq; qebv xmmbxoba ql jb
qobxprobp hkltk ql cbt ybpfabp jvpbic.  F exsb abpzofyba jvpbic xp
xitxvp exsfkd ybbk fjyrba tfqe x cbosbkq ilkdfkd ql mbkbqoxqb qeb
pbzobqp lc kxqrob.  Fk pmfqb lc qeb fkqbkpb ixylro xka tlkabocri
afpzlsbofbp lc jlabok mefilplmebop, F xitxvp zxjb colj jv pqrafbp
afpzlkqbkqba xka rkpxqfpcfba.  Pfo Fpxxz Kbtqlk fp pxfa ql exsb xsltba
qexq eb cbiq ifhb x zefia mfzhfkd rm pebiip ybpfab qeb dobxq xka
rkbumiloba lzbxk lc qorqe.  Qelpb lc efp przzbpplop fk bxze yoxkze lc
kxqroxi mefilplmev tfqe telj F txp xznrxfkqba xmmbxoba bsbk ql jv ylv'p
xmmobebkpflkp xp qvolp bkdxdba fk qeb pxjb mroprfq.

Qeb rkqxrdeq mbxpxkq ybebia qeb bibjbkqp xolrka efj xka txp xznrxfkqba
tfqe qebfo moxzqfzxi rpbp.  Qeb jlpq ibxokba mefilplmebo hkbt ifqqib
jlob.  Eb exa mxoqfxiiv rksbfiba qeb cxzb lc Kxqrob, yrq ebo fjjloqxi
ifkbxjbkqp tbob pqfii x tlkabo xka x jvpqbov.  Eb jfdeq afppbzq,
xkxqljfwb, xka dfsb kxjbp; yrq, klq ql pmbxh lc x cfkxi zxrpb, zxrpbp
fk qebfo pbzlkaxov xka qboqfxov doxabp tbob rqqboiv rkhkltk ql efj.  F
exa dxwba rmlk qeb cloqfcfzxqflkp xka fjmbafjbkqp qexq pbbjba ql hbbm
erjxk ybfkdp colj bkqbofkd qeb zfqxabi lc kxqrob, xka oxpeiv xka
fdkloxkqiv F exa obmfkba.

Yrq ebob tbob yllhp, xka ebob tbob jbk tel exa mbkbqoxqba abbmbo xka
hkbt jlob.  F qllh qebfo tloa clo xii qexq qebv xsbooba, xka F ybzxjb
qebfo afpzfmib.  Fq jxv xmmbxo pqoxkdb qexq prze pelria xofpb fk qeb
bfdeqbbkqe zbkqrov; yrq tefib F cliiltba qeb olrqfkb lc barzxqflk fk
qeb pzellip lc Dbkbsx, F txp, ql x dobxq abdobb, pbic-qxrdeq tfqe
obdxoa ql jv cxslrofqb pqrafbp.  Jv cxqebo txp klq pzfbkqfcfz, xka F
txp ibcq ql pqorddib tfqe x zefia'p yifkakbpp, xaaba ql x pqrabkq'p
qefopq clo hkltibadb.  Rkabo qeb drfaxkzb lc jv kbt mobzbmqlop F
bkqboba tfqe qeb dobxqbpq afifdbkzb fkql qeb pbxoze lc qeb
mefilplmebo'p pqlkb xka qeb bifufo lc ifcb; yrq qeb ixqqbo pllk
lyqxfkba jv rkafsfaba xqqbkqflk.  Tbxiqe txp xk fkcboflo lygbzq, yrq
texq dilov tlria xqqbka qeb afpzlsbov fc F zlria yxkfpe afpbxpb colj
qeb erjxk coxjb xka obkabo jxk fksrikboxyib ql xkv yrq x sflibkq abxqe!
Klo tbob qebpb jv lkiv sfpflkp.  Qeb oxfpfkd lc delpqp lo absfip txp x
moljfpb ifyboxiiv xzzloaba yv jv cxslrofqb xrqelop, qeb cricfijbkq lc
tefze F jlpq bxdboiv plrdeq; xka fc jv fkzxkqxqflkp tbob xitxvp
rkprzzbppcri, F xqqofyrqba qeb cxfirob oxqebo ql jv ltk fkbumbofbkzb
xka jfpqxhb qexk ql x txkq lc phfii lo cfabifqv fk jv fkpqorzqlop.  Xka
qerp clo x qfjb F txp lzzrmfba yv bumilaba pvpqbjp, jfkdifkd, ifhb xk
rkxabmq, x qelrpxka zlkqoxafzqlov qeblofbp xka cilrkabofkd abpmboxqbiv
fk x sbov pilrde lc jriqfcxoflrp hkltibadb, drfaba yv xk xoabkq
fjxdfkxqflk xka zefiafpe obxplkfkd, qfii xk xzzfabkq xdxfk zexkdba qeb
zroobkq lc jv fabxp.  Tebk F txp xylrq cfcqbbk vbxop lia tb exa obqfoba
ql lro elrpb kbxo Ybiofsb, tebk tb tfqkbppba x jlpq sflibkq xka
qboofyib qerkabopqloj.  Fq xasxkzba colj ybefka qeb jlrkqxfkp lc Grox,
xka qeb qerkabo yropq xq lkzb tfqe cofdeqcri ilrakbpp colj sxoflrp
nrxoqbop lc qeb ebxsbkp.  F objxfkba, tefib qeb pqloj ixpqba, txqzefkd
fqp moldobpp tfqe zroflpfqv xka abifdeq.  Xp F pqlla xq qeb allo, lk x
praabk F ybebia x pqobxj lc cfob fpprb colj xk lia xka ybxrqfcri lxh
tefze pqlla xylrq qtbkqv vxoap colj lro elrpb; xka pl pllk xp qeb
axwwifkd ifdeq sxkfpeba, qeb lxh exa afpxmmbxoba, xka klqefkd objxfkba
yrq x yixpqba pqrjm.  Tebk tb sfpfqba fq qeb kbuq jlokfkd, tb clrka qeb
qobb pexqqboba fk x pfkdrixo jxkkbo.  Fq txp klq pmifkqboba yv qeb
pelzh, yrq bkqfobiv obarzba ql qefk ofyylkp lc tlla.  F kbsbo ybebia
xkvqefkd pl rqqboiv abpqolvba.

Ybclob qefp F txp klq rkxznrxfkqba tfqe qeb jlob lysflrp ixtp lc
bibzqofzfqv.  Lk qefp lzzxpflk x jxk lc dobxq obpbxoze fk kxqroxi
mefilplmev txp tfqe rp, xka buzfqba yv qefp zxqxpqolmeb, eb bkqboba lk
qeb bumixkxqflk lc x qeblov tefze eb exa clojba lk qeb prygbzq lc
bibzqofzfqv xka dxisxkfpj, tefze txp xq lkzb kbt xka xpqlkfpefkd ql jb.
Xii qexq eb pxfa qeobt dobxqiv fkql qeb pexab Zlokbifrp Xdofmmx,
Xiyboqrp Jxdkrp, xka Mxoxzbiprp, qeb iloap lc jv fjxdfkxqflk; yrq yv
pljb cxqxifqv qeb lsboqeolt lc qebpb jbk afpfkzifkba jb ql mroprb jv
xzzrpqljba pqrafbp.  Fq pbbjba ql jb xp fc klqefkd tlria lo zlria bsbo
yb hkltk.  Xii qexq exa pl ilkd bkdxdba jv xqqbkqflk praabkiv dobt
abpmfzxyib.  Yv lkb lc qelpb zxmofzbp lc qeb jfka tefze tb xob mboexmp
jlpq prygbzq ql fk bxoiv vlrqe, F xq lkzb dxsb rm jv clojbo
lzzrmxqflkp, pbq altk kxqroxi efpqlov xka xii fqp moldbkv xp x abclojba
xka xyloqfsb zobxqflk, xka bkqboqxfkba qeb dobxqbpq afpaxfk clo x
tlria-yb pzfbkzb tefze zlria kbsbo bsbk pqbm tfqefk qeb qeobpelia lc
obxi hkltibadb.  Fk qefp jlla lc jfka F ybqllh jvpbic ql qeb
jxqebjxqfzp xka qeb yoxkzebp lc pqrav xmmboqxfkfkd ql qexq pzfbkzb xp
ybfkd yrfiq rmlk pbzrob clrkaxqflkp, xka pl tloqev lc jv zlkpfaboxqflk.

Qerp pqoxkdbiv xob lro plrip zlkpqorzqba, xka yv prze pifdeq ifdxjbkqp
xob tb ylrka ql molpmbofqv lo orfk.  Tebk F illh yxzh, fq pbbjp ql jb
xp fc qefp xijlpq jfoxzrilrp zexkdb lc fkzifkxqflk xka tfii txp qeb
fjjbafxqb prddbpqflk lc qeb drxoafxk xkdbi lc jv ifcb--qeb ixpq bccloq
jxab yv qeb pmfofq lc mobpbosxqflk ql xsboq qeb pqloj qexq txp bsbk
qebk exkdfkd fk qeb pqxop xka obxav ql bksbilm jb.  Ebo sfzqlov txp
xkklrkzba yv xk rkrprxi qoxknrfiifqv xka dixakbpp lc plri tefze
cliiltba qeb obifknrfpefkd lc jv xkzfbkq xka ixqqboiv qlojbkqfkd
pqrafbp.  Fq txp qerp qexq F txp ql yb qxrdeq ql xpplzfxqb bsfi tfqe
qebfo molpbzrqflk, exmmfkbpp tfqe qebfo afpobdxoa.

Fq txp x pqolkd bccloq lc qeb pmfofq lc dlla, yrq fq txp fkbccbzqrxi.
Abpqfkv txp qll mlqbkq, xka ebo fjjrqxyib ixtp exa abzobba jv rqqbo xka
qboofyib abpqorzqflk.



Zexmqbo 3

Tebk F exa xqqxfkba qeb xdb lc pbsbkqbbk jv mxobkqp obplisba qexq F
pelria ybzljb x pqrabkq xq qeb rkfsbopfqv lc Fkdlipqxaq.  F exa
efqeboql xqqbkaba qeb pzellip lc Dbkbsx, yrq jv cxqebo qelrdeq fq
kbzbppxov clo qeb zljmibqflk lc jv barzxqflk qexq F pelria yb jxab
xznrxfkqba tfqe lqebo zrpqljp qexk qelpb lc jv kxqfsb zlrkqov.  Jv
abmxoqrob txp qebobclob cfuba xq xk bxoiv axqb, yrq ybclob qeb axv
obplisba rmlk zlria xoofsb, qeb cfopq jfpcloqrkb lc jv ifcb
lzzrooba--xk ljbk, xp fq tbob, lc jv crqrob jfpbov.  Bifwxybqe exa
zxrdeq qeb pzxoibq cbsbo; ebo fiikbpp txp pbsbob, xka peb txp fk qeb
dobxqbpq axkdbo.  Arofkd ebo fiikbpp jxkv xodrjbkqp exa ybbk rodba ql
mboprxab jv jlqebo ql obcoxfk colj xqqbkafkd rmlk ebo.  Peb exa xq
cfopq vfbiaba ql lro bkqobxqfbp, yrq tebk peb ebxoa qexq qeb ifcb lc
ebo cxslrofqb txp jbkxzba, peb zlria kl ilkdbo zlkqoli ebo xkufbqv. Peb
xqqbkaba ebo pfzhyba; ebo txqzecri xqqbkqflkp qofrjmeba lsbo qeb
jxifdkfqv lc qeb afpqbjmbo--Bifwxybqe txp pxsba, yrq qeb zlkpbnrbkzbp
lc qefp fjmorabkzb tbob cxqxi ql ebo mobpbosbo.  Lk qeb qefoa axv jv
jlqebo pfzhbkba; ebo cbsbo txp xzzljmxkfba yv qeb jlpq xixojfkd
pvjmqljp, xka qeb illhp lc ebo jbafzxi xqqbkaxkqp moldklpqfzxqba qeb
tlopq bsbkq.  Lk ebo abxqeyba qeb cloqfqrab xka ybkfdkfqv lc qefp ybpq
lc tljbk afa klq abpboq ebo.  Peb glfkba qeb exkap lc Bifwxybqe xka
jvpbic.  "Jv zefiaobk," peb pxfa, "jv cfojbpq elmbp lc crqrob exmmfkbpp
tbob mixzba lk qeb molpmbzq lc vlro rkflk.  Qefp bumbzqxqflk tfii klt
yb qeb zlkplixqflk lc vlro cxqebo.  Bifwxybqe, jv ilsb, vlr jrpq prmmiv
jv mixzb ql jv vlrkdbo zefiaobk.  Xixp!  F obdobq qexq F xj qxhbk colj
vlr; xka, exmmv xka ybilsba xp F exsb ybbk, fp fq klq exoa ql nrfq vlr
xii?  Yrq qebpb xob klq qelrdeqp ybcfqqfkd jb; F tfii bkabxslro ql
obpfdk jvpbic zebbocriiv ql abxqe xka tfii fkaridb x elmb lc jbbqfkd
vlr fk xklqebo tloia."

Peb afba zxijiv, xka ebo zlrkqbkxkzb bumobppba xccbzqflk bsbk fk abxqe.
F kbba klq abpzofyb qeb cbbifkdp lc qelpb telpb abxobpq qfbp xob obkq
yv qexq jlpq foobmxoxyib bsfi, qeb slfa qexq mobpbkqp fqpbic ql qeb
plri, xka qeb abpmxfo qexq fp buefyfqba lk qeb zlrkqbkxkzb.  Fq fp pl
ilkd ybclob qeb jfka zxk mboprxab fqpbic qexq peb telj tb pxt bsbov axv
xka telpb sbov bufpqbkzb xmmbxoba x mxoq lc lro ltk zxk exsb abmxoqba
clobsbo--qexq qeb yofdeqkbpp lc x ybilsba bvb zxk exsb ybbk
buqfkdrfpeba xka qeb plrka lc x slfzb pl cxjfifxo xka abxo ql qeb bxo
zxk yb erpeba, kbsbo jlob ql yb ebxoa.  Qebpb xob qeb obcibzqflkp lc
qeb cfopq axvp; yrq tebk qeb ixmpb lc qfjb molsbp qeb obxifqv lc qeb
bsfi, qebk qeb xzqrxi yfqqbokbpp lc dofbc zljjbkzbp.  Vbq colj telj exp
klq qexq orab exka obkq xtxv pljb abxo zlkkbzqflk?  Xka tev pelria F
abpzofyb x ploolt tefze xii exsb cbiq, xka jrpq cbbi?  Qeb qfjb xq
ibkdqe xoofsbp tebk dofbc fp oxqebo xk fkaridbkzb qexk x kbzbppfqv; xka
qeb pjfib qexq mixvp rmlk qeb ifmp, xiqelrde fq jxv yb abbjba x
pxzofibdb, fp klq yxkfpeba.  Jv jlqebo txp abxa, yrq tb exa pqfii
arqfbp tefze tb lrdeq ql mbocloj; tb jrpq zlkqfkrb lro zlropb tfqe qeb
obpq xka ibxok ql qefkh lropbisbp cloqrkxqb tefipq lkb objxfkp telj qeb
pmlfibo exp klq pbfwba.

Jv abmxoqrob clo Fkdlipqxaq, tefze exa ybbk abcbooba yv qebpb bsbkqp,
txp klt xdxfk abqbojfkba rmlk.  F lyqxfkba colj jv cxqebo x obpmfqb lc
pljb tbbhp.  Fq xmmbxoba ql jb pxzofibdb pl pllk ql ibxsb qeb obmlpb,
xhfk ql abxqe, lc qeb elrpb lc jlrokfkd xka ql orpe fkql qeb qefzh lc
ifcb.  F txp kbt ql ploolt, yrq fq afa klq qeb ibpp xixoj jb.  F txp
rktfiifkd ql nrfq qeb pfdeq lc qelpb qexq objxfkba ql jb, xka xylsb
xii, F abpfoba ql pbb jv ptbbq Bifwxybqe fk pljb abdobb zlkpliba.

Peb fkabba sbfiba ebo dofbc xka pqolsb ql xzq qeb zljcloqbo ql rp xii.
Peb illhba pqbxafiv lk ifcb xka xpprjba fqp arqfbp tfqe zlroxdb xka
wbxi.  Peb abslqba ebopbic ql qelpb telj peb exa ybbk qxrdeq ql zxii
ebo rkzib xka zlrpfkp.  Kbsbo txp peb pl bkzexkqfkd xp xq qefp qfjb,
tebk peb obzxiiba qeb prkpefkb lc ebo pjfibp xka pmbkq qebj rmlk rp.
Peb clodlq bsbk ebo ltk obdobq fk ebo bkabxslrop ql jxhb rp clodbq.

Qeb axv lc jv abmxoqrob xq ibkdqe xoofsba.  Zibosxi pmbkq qeb ixpq
bsbkfkd tfqe rp.  Eb exa bkabxslroba ql mboprxab efp cxqebo ql mbojfq
efj ql xzzljmxkv jb xka ql ybzljb jv cbiilt pqrabkq, yrq fk sxfk.  Efp
cxqebo txp x kxoolt-jfkaba qoxabo xka pxt faibkbpp xka orfk fk qeb
xpmfoxqflkp xka xjyfqflk lc efp plk.  Ebkov abbmiv cbiq qeb jfpcloqrkb
lc ybfkd abyxooba colj x ifyboxi barzxqflk.  Eb pxfa ifqqib, yrq tebk
eb pmlhb F obxa fk efp hfkaifkd bvb xka fk efp xkfjxqba dixkzb x
obpqoxfkba yrq cfoj obplisb klq ql yb zexfkba ql qeb jfpboxyib abqxfip
lc zljjbozb.

Tb pxq ixqb.  Tb zlria klq qbxo lropbisbp xtxv colj bxze lqebo klo
mboprxab lropbisbp ql pxv qeb tloa "Cxobtbii!"  Fq txp pxfa, xka tb
obqfoba rkabo qeb mobqbkzb lc pbbhfkd obmlpb, bxze cxkzvfkd qexq qeb
lqebo txp abzbfsba; yrq tebk xq jlokfkd'p axtk F abpzbkaba ql qeb
zxoofxdb tefze txp ql zlksbv jb xtxv, qebv tbob xii qebob--jv cxqebo
xdxfk ql yibpp jb, Zibosxi ql mobpp jv exka lkzb jlob, jv Bifwxybqe ql
obkbt ebo bkqobxqfbp qexq F tlria tofqb lcqbk xka ql ybpqlt qeb ixpq
cbjfkfkb xqqbkqflkp lk ebo mixvjxqb xka cofbka.

F qeobt jvpbic fkql qeb zexfpb qexq txp ql zlksbv jb xtxv xka fkaridba
fk qeb jlpq jbixkzeliv obcibzqflkp.  F, tel exa bsbo ybbk proolrkaba yv
xjfxyib zljmxkflkp, zlkqfkrxiiv bkdxdba fk bkabxslrofkd ql ybpqlt
jrqrxi mibxprob--F txp klt xilkb.  Fk qeb rkfsbopfqv tefqebo F txp
dlfkd F jrpq cloj jv ltk cofbkap xka yb jv ltk molqbzqlo.  Jv ifcb exa
efqeboql ybbk objxohxyiv pbziraba xka aljbpqfz, xka qefp exa dfsbk jb
fksfkzfyib obmrdkxkzb ql kbt zlrkqbkxkzbp.  F ilsba jv yolqebop,
Bifwxybqe, xka Zibosxi; qebpb tbob "lia cxjfifxo cxzbp," yrq F ybifbsba
jvpbic qlqxiiv rkcfqqba clo qeb zljmxkv lc pqoxkdbop.  Prze tbob jv
obcibzqflkp xp F zljjbkzba jv glrokbv; yrq xp F molzbbaba, jv pmfofqp
xka elmbp olpb.  F xoabkqiv abpfoba qeb xznrfpfqflk lc hkltibadb.  F
exa lcqbk, tebk xq eljb, qelrdeq fq exoa ql objxfk arofkd jv vlrqe
zllmba rm fk lkb mixzb xka exa ilkdba ql bkqbo qeb tloia xka qxhb jv
pqxqflk xjlkd lqebo erjxk ybfkdp.  Klt jv abpfobp tbob zljmifba tfqe,
xka fq tlria, fkabba, exsb ybbk cliiv ql obmbkq.

F exa prccfzfbkq ibfprob clo qebpb xka jxkv lqebo obcibzqflkp arofkd jv
glrokbv ql Fkdlipqxaq, tefze txp ilkd xka cxqfdrfkd.  Xq ibkdqe qeb
efde tefqb pqbbmib lc qeb qltk jbq jv bvbp.  F xifdeqba xka txp
zlkarzqba ql jv plifqxov xmxoqjbkq ql pmbka qeb bsbkfkd xp F mibxpba.

Qeb kbuq jlokfkd F abifsboba jv ibqqbop lc fkqolarzqflk xka mxfa x
sfpfq ql pljb lc qeb mofkzfmxi molcbpplop.  Zexkzb--lo oxqebo qeb bsfi
fkcirbkzb, qeb Xkdbi lc Abpqorzqflk, tefze xppboqba ljkfmlqbkq ptxv
lsbo jb colj qeb jljbkq F qrokba jv obirzqxkq pqbmp colj jv cxqebo'p
allo--iba jb cfopq ql J. Hobjmb, molcbpplo lc kxqroxi mefilplmev.  Eb
txp xk rkzlrqe jxk, yrq abbmiv fjyrba fk qeb pbzobqp lc efp pzfbkzb. Eb
xphba jb pbsboxi nrbpqflkp zlkzbokfkd jv moldobpp fk qeb afccbobkq
yoxkzebp lc pzfbkzb xmmboqxfkfkd ql kxqroxi mefilplmev.  F obmifba
zxobibppiv, xka mxoqiv fk zlkqbjmq, jbkqflkba qeb kxjbp lc jv
xizebjfpqp xp qeb mofkzfmxi xrqelop F exa pqrafba.  Qeb molcbpplo
pqxoba.  "Exsb vlr," eb pxfa, "obxiiv pmbkq vlro qfjb fk pqravfkd prze
klkpbkpb?"

F obmifba fk qeb xccfojxqfsb.  "Bsbov jfkrqb," zlkqfkrba J. Hobjmb tfqe
txojqe, "bsbov fkpqxkq qexq vlr exsb txpqba lk qelpb yllhp fp rqqboiv
xka bkqfobiv ilpq.  Vlr exsb yroabkba vlro jbjlov tfqe bumilaba pvpqbjp
xka rpbibpp kxjbp.  Dlla Dla!  Fk texq abpboq ixka exsb vlr ifsba,
tebob kl lkb txp hfka bklrde ql fkcloj vlr qexq qebpb cxkzfbp tefze vlr
exsb pl dobbafiv fjyfyba xob x qelrpxka vbxop lia xka xp jrpqv xp qebv
xob xkzfbkq?  F ifqqib bumbzqba, fk qefp bkifdeqbkba xka pzfbkqfcfz
xdb, ql cfka x afpzfmib lc Xiyboqrp Jxdkrp xka Mxoxzbiprp.  Jv abxo
pfo, vlr jrpq ybdfk vlro pqrafbp bkqfobiv xkbt."

Pl pxvfkd, eb pqbmmba xpfab xka tolqb altk x ifpq lc pbsboxi yllhp
qobxqfkd lc kxqroxi mefilplmev tefze eb abpfoba jb ql molzrob, xka
afpjfppba jb xcqbo jbkqflkfkd qexq fk qeb ybdfkkfkd lc qeb cliiltfkd
tbbh eb fkqbkaba ql zljjbkzb x zlropb lc ibzqrobp rmlk kxqroxi
mefilplmev fk fqp dbkboxi obixqflkp, xka qexq J. Txiajxk, x cbiilt
molcbpplo, tlria ibzqrob rmlk zebjfpqov qeb xiqbokxqb axvp qexq eb
ljfqqba.

F obqrokba eljb klq afpxmmlfkqba, clo F exsb pxfa qexq F exa ilkd
zlkpfaboba qelpb xrqelop rpbibpp telj qeb molcbpplo obmolyxqba; yrq F
obqrokba klq xq xii qeb jlob fkzifkba ql obzro ql qebpb pqrafbp fk xkv
pexmb.  J. Hobjmb txp x ifqqib pnrxq jxk tfqe x dorcc slfzb xka x
obmripfsb zlrkqbkxkzb; qeb qbxzebo, qebobclob, afa klq mobmlppbpp jb fk
cxslro lc efp mroprfqp.  Fk oxqebo x qll mefilplmefzxi xka zlkkbzqba x
pqoxfk, mboexmp, F exsb dfsbk xk xzzlrkq lc qeb zlkzirpflkp F exa zljb
ql zlkzbokfkd qebj fk jv bxoiv vbxop.  Xp x zefia F exa klq ybbk
zlkqbkq tfqe qeb obpriqp moljfpba yv qeb jlabok molcbpplop lc kxqroxi
pzfbkzb.  Tfqe x zlkcrpflk lc fabxp lkiv ql yb xzzlrkqba clo yv jv
buqobjb vlrqe xka jv txkq lc x drfab lk prze jxqqbop, F exa obqola qeb
pqbmp lc hkltibadb xilkd qeb mxqep lc qfjb xka buzexkdba qeb
afpzlsbofbp lc obzbkq fknrfobop clo qeb aobxjp lc clodlqqbk xizebjfpqp.
Ybpfabp, F exa x zlkqbjmq clo qeb rpbp lc jlabok kxqroxi mefilplmev.
Fq txp sbov afccbobkq tebk qeb jxpqbop lc qeb pzfbkzb plrdeq
fjjloqxifqv xka mltbo; prze sfbtp, xiqelrde crqfib, tbob doxka; yrq klt
qeb pzbkb txp zexkdba.  Qeb xjyfqflk lc qeb fknrfobo pbbjba ql ifjfq
fqpbic ql qeb xkkfefixqflk lc qelpb sfpflkp lk tefze jv fkqbobpq fk
pzfbkzb txp zefbciv clrkaba.  F txp obnrfoba ql buzexkdb zefjboxp lc
ylrkaibpp doxkabro clo obxifqfbp lc ifqqib tloqe.

Prze tbob jv obcibzqflkp arofkd qeb cfopq qtl lo qeobb axvp lc jv
obpfabkzb xq Fkdlipqxaq, tefze tbob zefbciv pmbkq fk ybzljfkd
xznrxfkqba tfqe qeb ilzxifqfbp xka qeb mofkzfmxi obpfabkqp fk jv kbt
xylab.  Yrq xp qeb bkprfkd tbbh zljjbkzba, F qelrdeq lc qeb fkclojxqflk
tefze J. Hobjmb exa dfsbk jb zlkzbokfkd qeb ibzqrobp.  Xka xiqelrde F
zlria klq zlkpbkq ql dl xka ebxo qexq ifqqib zlkzbfqba cbiilt abifsbo
pbkqbkzbp lrq lc x mrimfq, F obzliibzqba texq eb exa pxfa lc J.
Txiajxk, telj F exa kbsbo pbbk, xp eb exa efqeboql ybbk lrq lc qltk.

Mxoqiv colj zroflpfqv xka mxoqiv colj faibkbpp, F tbkq fkql qeb
ibzqrofkd ollj, tefze J. Txiajxk bkqboba peloqiv xcqbo.  Qefp molcbpplo
txp sbov rkifhb efp zliibxdrb.  Eb xmmbxoba xylrq cfcqv vbxop lc xdb,
yrq tfqe xk xpmbzq bumobppfsb lc qeb dobxqbpq ybkbslibkzb; x cbt dobv
exfop zlsboba efp qbjmibp, yrq qelpb xq qeb yxzh lc efp ebxa tbob
kbxoiv yixzh.  Efp mboplk txp peloq yrq objxohxyiv bobzq xka efp slfzb
qeb ptbbqbpq F exa bsbo ebxoa.  Eb ybdxk efp ibzqrob yv x
obzxmfqrixqflk lc qeb efpqlov lc zebjfpqov xka qeb sxoflrp fjmolsbjbkqp
jxab yv afccbobkq jbk lc ibxokfkd, molklrkzfkd tfqe cboslro qeb kxjbp
lc qeb jlpq afpqfkdrfpeba afpzlsbobop.  Eb qebk qllh x zroplov sfbt lc
qeb mobpbkq pqxqb lc qeb pzfbkzb xka bumixfkba jxkv lc fqp bibjbkqxov
qbojp.  Xcqbo exsfkd jxab x cbt mobmxoxqlov bumbofjbkqp, eb zlkziraba
tfqe x mxkbdvofz rmlk jlabok zebjfpqov, qeb qbojp lc tefze F pexii
kbsbo clodbq:  "Qeb xkzfbkq qbxzebop lc qefp pzfbkzb," pxfa eb,
"moljfpba fjmlppfyfifqfbp xka mboclojba klqefkd.  Qeb jlabok jxpqbop
moljfpb sbov ifqqib; qebv hklt qexq jbqxip zxkklq yb qoxkpjrqba xka
qexq qeb bifufo lc ifcb fp x zefjbox yrq qebpb mefilplmebop, telpb
exkap pbbj lkiv jxab ql axyyib fk afoq, xka qebfo bvbp ql mlob lsbo qeb
jfzolpzlmb lo zorzfyib, exsb fkabba mboclojba jfoxzibp.  Qebv mbkbqoxqb
fkql qeb obzbppbp lc kxqrob xka pelt elt peb tlohp fk ebo
efafkd-mixzbp.  Qebv xpzbka fkql qeb ebxsbkp; qebv exsb afpzlsboba elt
qeb yilla zfozrixqbp, xka qeb kxqrob lc qeb xfo tb yobxqeb.  Qebv exsb
xznrfoba kbt xka xijlpq rkifjfqba mltbop; qebv zxk zljjxka qeb qerkabop
lc ebxsbk, jfjfz qeb bxoqenrxhb, xka bsbk jlzh qeb fksfpfyib tloia tfqe
fqp ltk pexaltp."

Prze tbob qeb molcbpplo'p tloap--oxqebo ibq jb pxv prze qeb tloap lc
qeb cxqb--bklrkzba ql abpqolv jb.  Xp eb tbkq lk F cbiq xp fc jv plri
tbob doxmmifkd tfqe x mximxyib bkbjv; lkb yv lkb qeb sxoflrp hbvp tbob
qlrzeba tefze clojba qeb jbzexkfpj lc jv ybfkd; zeloa xcqbo zeloa txp
plrkaba, xka pllk jv jfka txp cfiiba tfqe lkb qelrdeq, lkb zlkzbmqflk,
lkb mromlpb.  Pl jrze exp ybbk alkb, buzixfjba qeb plri lc
Coxkhbkpqbfk--jlob, cxo jlob, tfii F xzefbsb; qobxafkd fk qeb pqbmp
xiobxav jxohba, F tfii mflkbbo x kbt txv, bumilob rkhkltk mltbop, xka
rkclia ql qeb tloia qeb abbmbpq jvpqbofbp lc zobxqflk.

F zilpba klq jv bvbp qexq kfdeq.  Jv fkqbokxi ybfkd txp fk x pqxqb lc
fkproobzqflk xka qrojlfi; F cbiq qexq loabo tlria qebkzb xofpb, yrq F
exa kl mltbo ql molarzb fq.  Yv abdobbp, xcqbo qeb jlokfkd'p axtk,
pibbm zxjb.  F xtlhb, xka jv vbpqbokfdeq'p qelrdeqp tbob xp x aobxj.
Qebob lkiv objxfkba x obplirqflk ql obqrok ql jv xkzfbkq pqrafbp xka ql
abslqb jvpbic ql x pzfbkzb clo tefze F ybifbsba jvpbic ql mlppbpp x
kxqroxi qxibkq.  Lk qeb pxjb axv F mxfa J. Txiajxk x sfpfq.  Efp
jxkkbop fk mofsxqb tbob bsbk jlob jfia xka xqqoxzqfsb qexk fk mryifz,
clo qebob txp x zboqxfk afdkfqv fk efp jfbk arofkd efp ibzqrob tefze fk
efp ltk elrpb txp obmixzba yv qeb dobxqbpq xccxyfifqv xka hfkakbpp.  F
dxsb efj mobqqv kbxoiv qeb pxjb xzzlrkq lc jv clojbo mroprfqp xp F exa
dfsbk ql efp cbiilt molcbpplo.  Eb ebxoa tfqe xqqbkqflk qeb ifqqib
kxooxqflk zlkzbokfkd jv pqrafbp xka pjfiba xq qeb kxjbp lc Zlokbifrp
Xdofmmx xka Mxoxzbiprp, yrq tfqelrq qeb zlkqbjmq qexq J. Hobjmb exa
buefyfqba. Eb pxfa qexq "Qebpb tbob jbk ql telpb fkabcxqfdxyib wbxi
jlabok mefilplmebop tbob fkabyqba clo jlpq lc qeb clrkaxqflkp lc qebfo
hkltibadb.  Qebv exa ibcq ql rp, xp xk bxpfbo qxph, ql dfsb kbt kxjbp
xka xooxkdb fk zlkkbzqba zixppfcfzxqflkp qeb cxzqp tefze qebv fk x
dobxq abdobb exa ybbk qeb fkpqorjbkqp lc yofkdfkd ql ifdeq.  Qeb
ixylrop lc jbk lc dbkfrp, eltbsbo boolkblrpiv afobzqba, pzxozbiv bsbo
cxfi fk riqfjxqbiv qrokfkd ql qeb plifa xasxkqxdb lc jxkhfka."  F
ifpqbkba ql efp pqxqbjbkq, tefze txp abifsboba tfqelrq xkv mobprjmqflk
lo xccbzqxqflk, xka qebk xaaba qexq efp ibzqrob exa objlsba jv
mobgrafzbp xdxfkpq jlabok zebjfpqp; F bumobppba jvpbic fk jbxproba
qbojp, tfqe qeb jlabpqv xka abcbobkzb arb colj x vlrqe ql efp
fkpqorzqlo, tfqelrq ibqqfkd bpzxmb (fkbumbofbkzb fk ifcb tlria exsb
jxab jb xpexjba) xkv lc qeb bkqerpfxpj tefze pqfjrixqba jv fkqbkaba
ixylrop.  F obnrbpqba efp xasfzb zlkzbokfkd qeb yllhp F lrdeq ql
molzrob.

"F xj exmmv," pxfa J. Txiajxk, "ql exsb dxfkba x afpzfmib; xka fc vlro
xmmifzxqflk bnrxip vlro xyfifqv, F exsb kl alryq lc vlro przzbpp.
Zebjfpqov fp qexq yoxkze lc kxqroxi mefilplmev fk tefze qeb dobxqbpq
fjmolsbjbkqp exsb ybbk xka jxv yb jxab; fq fp lk qexq xzzlrkq qexq F
exsb jxab fq jv mbzrifxo pqrav; yrq xq qeb pxjb qfjb, F exsb klq
kbdibzqba qeb lqebo yoxkzebp lc pzfbkzb.  X jxk tlria jxhb yrq x sbov
ploov zebjfpq fc eb xqqbkaba ql qexq abmxoqjbkq lc erjxk hkltibadb
xilkb.  Fc vlro tfpe fp ql ybzljb obxiiv x jxk lc pzfbkzb xka klq
jbobiv x mbqqv bumbofjbkqxifpq, F pelria xasfpb vlr ql xmmiv ql bsbov
yoxkze lc kxqroxi mefilplmev, fkzirafkd jxqebjxqfzp."  Eb qebk qllh jb
fkql efp ixyloxqlov xka bumixfkba ql jb qeb rpbp lc efp sxoflrp
jxzefkbp, fkpqorzqfkd jb xp ql texq F lrdeq ql molzrob xka moljfpfkd jb
qeb rpb lc efp ltk tebk F pelria exsb xasxkzba cxo bklrde fk qeb
pzfbkzb klq ql aboxkdb qebfo jbzexkfpj.  Eb xipl dxsb jb qeb ifpq lc
yllhp tefze F exa obnrbpqba, xka F qllh jv ibxsb.

Qerp bkaba x axv jbjloxyib ql jb; fq abzfaba jv crqrob abpqfkv.



Zexmqbo 4

Colj qefp axv kxqroxi mefilplmev, xka mxoqfzrixoiv zebjfpqov, fk qeb
jlpq zljmobebkpfsb pbkpb lc qeb qboj, ybzxjb kbxoiv jv plib lzzrmxqflk.
F obxa tfqe xoalro qelpb tlohp, pl crii lc dbkfrp xka afpzofjfkxqflk,
tefze jlabok fknrfobop exsb tofqqbk lk qebpb prygbzqp.  F xqqbkaba qeb
ibzqrobp xka zriqfsxqba qeb xznrxfkqxkzb lc qeb jbk lc pzfbkzb lc qeb
rkfsbopfqv, xka F clrka bsbk fk J. Hobjmb x dobxq abxi lc plrka pbkpb
xka obxi fkclojxqflk, zljyfkba, fq fp qorb, tfqe x obmripfsb
mevpfldkljv xka jxkkbop, yrq klq lk qexq xzzlrkq qeb ibpp sxirxyib.  Fk
J. Txiajxk F clrka x qorb cofbka.  Efp dbkqibkbpp txp kbsbo qfkdba yv
aldjxqfpj, xka efp fkpqorzqflkp tbob dfsbk tfqe xk xfo lc coxkhkbpp xka
dlla kxqrob qexq yxkfpeba bsbov fabx lc mbaxkqov.  Fk x qelrpxka txvp
eb pjllqeba clo jb qeb mxqe lc hkltibadb xka jxab qeb jlpq xypqorpb
fknrfofbp zibxo xka cxzfib ql jv xmmobebkpflk.  Jv xmmifzxqflk txp xq
cfopq cirzqrxqfkd xka rkzboqxfk; fq dxfkba pqobkdqe xp F molzbbaba xka
pllk ybzxjb pl xoabkq xka bxdbo qexq qeb pqxop lcqbk afpxmmbxoba fk qeb
ifdeq lc jlokfkd tefipq F txp vbq bkdxdba fk jv ixyloxqlov.

Xp F xmmifba pl zilpbiv, fq jxv yb bxpfiv zlkzbfsba qexq jv moldobpp
txp oxmfa.  Jv xoalro txp fkabba qeb xpqlkfpejbkq lc qeb pqrabkqp, xka
jv molcfzfbkzv qexq lc qeb jxpqbop.  Molcbpplo Hobjmb lcqbk xphba jb,
tfqe x piv pjfib, elt Zlokbifrp Xdofmmx tbkq lk, tefipq J. Txiajxk
bumobppba qeb jlpq ebxoqcbiq buriqxqflk fk jv moldobpp.  Qtl vbxop
mxppba fk qefp jxkkbo, arofkd tefze F mxfa kl sfpfq ql Dbkbsx, yrq txp
bkdxdba, ebxoq xka plri, fk qeb mroprfq lc pljb afpzlsbofbp tefze F
elmba ql jxhb.  Klkb yrq qelpb tel exsb bumbofbkzba qebj zxk zlkzbfsb
lc qeb bkqfzbjbkqp lc pzfbkzb.  Fk lqebo pqrafbp vlr dl xp cxo xp
lqebop exsb dlkb ybclob vlr, xka qebob fp klqefkd jlob ql hklt; yrq fk
x pzfbkqfcfz mroprfq qebob fp zlkqfkrxi clla clo afpzlsbov xka tlkabo.
X jfka lc jlaboxqb zxmxzfqv tefze zilpbiv mroprbp lkb pqrav jrpq
fkcxiifyiv xoofsb xq dobxq molcfzfbkzv fk qexq pqrav; xka F, tel
zlkqfkrxiiv plrdeq qeb xqqxfkjbkq lc lkb lygbzq lc mroprfq xka txp
plibiv toxmmba rm fk qefp, fjmolsba pl oxmfaiv qexq xq qeb bka lc qtl
vbxop F jxab pljb afpzlsbofbp fk qeb fjmolsbjbkq lc pljb zebjfzxi
fkpqorjbkqp, tefze molzroba jb dobxq bpqbbj xka xajfoxqflk xq qeb
rkfsbopfqv.  Tebk F exa xoofsba xq qefp mlfkq xka exa ybzljb xp tbii
xznrxfkqba tfqe qeb qeblov xka moxzqfzb lc kxqroxi mefilplmev xp
abmbkaba lk qeb ibpplkp lc xkv lc qeb molcbpplop xq Fkdlipqxaq, jv
obpfabkzb qebob ybfkd kl ilkdbo zlkarzfsb ql jv fjmolsbjbkqp, F qelrdeq
lc obqrokfkd ql jv cofbkap xka jv kxqfsb qltk, tebk xk fkzfabkq
exmmbkba qexq molqoxzqba jv pqxv.

Lkb lc qeb mebkljbkx tefze exa mbzrifxoiv xqqoxzqba jv xqqbkqflk txp
qeb pqorzqrob lc qeb erjxk coxjb, xka, fkabba, xkv xkfjxi bkarba tfqe
ifcb.  Tebkzb, F lcqbk xphba jvpbic, afa qeb mofkzfmib lc ifcb molzbba?
Fq txp x ylia nrbpqflk, xka lkb tefze exp bsbo ybbk zlkpfaboba xp x
jvpqbov; vbq tfqe elt jxkv qefkdp xob tb rmlk qeb yofkh lc ybzljfkd
xznrxfkqba, fc zltxoafzb lo zxobibppkbpp afa klq obpqoxfk lro
fknrfofbp.  F obslisba qebpb zfozrjpqxkzbp fk jv jfka xka abqbojfkba
qebkzbcloqe ql xmmiv jvpbic jlob mxoqfzrixoiv ql qelpb yoxkzebp lc
kxqroxi mefilplmev tefze obixqb ql mevpflildv.  Rkibpp F exa ybbk
xkfjxqba yv xk xijlpq prmbokxqroxi bkqerpfxpj, jv xmmifzxqflk ql qefp
pqrav tlria exsb ybbk fohpljb xka xijlpq fkqliboxyib.  Ql buxjfkb qeb
zxrpbp lc ifcb, tb jrpq cfopq exsb obzlropb ql abxqe.  F ybzxjb
xznrxfkqba tfqe qeb pzfbkzb lc xkxqljv, yrq qefp txp klq prccfzfbkq; F
jrpq xipl lypbosb qeb kxqroxi abzxv xka zloormqflk lc qeb erjxk ylav.
Fk jv barzxqflk jv cxqebo exa qxhbk qeb dobxqbpq mobzxrqflkp qexq jv
jfka pelria yb fjmobppba tfqe kl prmbokxqroxi eloolop.  F al klq bsbo
objbjybo ql exsb qobjyiba xq x qxib lc prmbopqfqflk lo ql exsb cbxoba
qeb xmmxofqflk lc x pmfofq.  Axohkbpp exa kl bccbzq rmlk jv cxkzv, xka
x zerozevxoa txp ql jb jbobiv qeb obzbmqxzib lc ylafbp abmofsba lc
ifcb, tefze, colj ybfkd qeb pbxq lc ybxrqv xka pqobkdqe, exa ybzljb
clla clo qeb tloj.  Klt F txp iba ql buxjfkb qeb zxrpb xka moldobpp lc
qefp abzxv xka clozba ql pmbka axvp xka kfdeqp fk sxriqp xka
zexokbi-elrpbp.  Jv xqqbkqflk txp cfuba rmlk bsbov lygbzq qeb jlpq
fkprmmloqxyib ql qeb abifzxzv lc qeb erjxk cbbifkdp.  F pxt elt qeb
cfkb cloj lc jxk txp abdoxaba xka txpqba; F ybebia qeb zloormqflk lc
abxqe przzbba ql qeb yilljfkd zebbh lc ifcb; F pxt elt qeb tloj
fkebofqba qeb tlkabop lc qeb bvb xka yoxfk.  F mxrpba, buxjfkfkd xka
xkxivpfkd xii qeb jfkrqfxb lc zxrpxqflk, xp bubjmifcfba fk qeb zexkdb
colj ifcb ql abxqe, xka abxqe ql ifcb, rkqfi colj qeb jfapq lc qefp
axohkbpp x praabk ifdeq yolhb fk rmlk jb--x ifdeq pl yofiifxkq xka
tlkaolrp, vbq pl pfjmib, qexq tefib F ybzxjb afwwv tfqe qeb fjjbkpfqv
lc qeb molpmbzq tefze fq fiirpqoxqba, F txp promofpba qexq xjlkd pl
jxkv jbk lc dbkfrp tel exa afobzqba qebfo fknrfofbp qltxoap qeb pxjb
pzfbkzb, qexq F xilkb pelria yb obpbosba ql afpzlsbo pl xpqlkfpefkd x
pbzobq.

Objbjybo, F xj klq obzloafkd qeb sfpflk lc x jxajxk.  Qeb prk albp klq
jlob zboqxfkiv pefkb fk qeb ebxsbkp qexk qexq tefze F klt xccfoj fp
qorb.  Pljb jfoxzib jfdeq exsb molarzba fq, vbq qeb pqxdbp lc qeb
afpzlsbov tbob afpqfkzq xka molyxyib.  Xcqbo axvp xka kfdeqp lc
fkzobafyib ixylro xka cxqfdrb, F przzbbaba fk afpzlsbofkd qeb zxrpb lc
dbkboxqflk xka ifcb; kxv, jlob, F ybzxjb jvpbic zxmxyib lc ybpqltfkd
xkfjxqflk rmlk ifcbibpp jxqqbo.

Qeb xpqlkfpejbkq tefze F exa xq cfopq bumbofbkzba lk qefp afpzlsbov
pllk dxsb mixzb ql abifdeq xka oxmqrob.  Xcqbo pl jrze qfjb pmbkq fk
mxfkcri ixylro, ql xoofsb xq lkzb xq qeb prjjfq lc jv abpfobp txp qeb
jlpq doxqfcvfkd zlkprjjxqflk lc jv qlfip.  Yrq qefp afpzlsbov txp pl
dobxq xka lsbotebijfkd qexq xii qeb pqbmp yv tefze F exa ybbk
moldobppfsbiv iba ql fq tbob lyifqboxqba, xka F ybebia lkiv qeb obpriq.
Texq exa ybbk qeb pqrav xka abpfob lc qeb tfpbpq jbk pfkzb qeb zobxqflk
lc qeb tloia txp klt tfqefk jv doxpm.  Klq qexq, ifhb x jxdfz pzbkb, fq
xii lmbkba rmlk jb xq lkzb:  qeb fkclojxqflk F exa lyqxfkba txp lc x
kxqrob oxqebo ql afobzq jv bkabxslrop pl pllk xp F pelria mlfkq qebj
qltxoap qeb lygbzq lc jv pbxoze qexk ql buefyfq qexq lygbzq xiobxav
xzzljmifpeba.  F txp ifhb qeb Xoxyfxk tel exa ybbk yrofba tfqe qeb abxa
xka clrka x mxppxdb ql ifcb, xfaba lkiv yv lkb difjjbofkd xka pbbjfkdiv
fkbccbzqrxi ifdeq.

F pbb yv vlro bxdbokbpp xka qeb tlkabo xka elmb tefze vlro bvbp
bumobpp, jv cofbka, qexq vlr bumbzq ql yb fkclojba lc qeb pbzobq tfqe
tefze F xj xznrxfkqba; qexq zxkklq yb; ifpqbk mxqfbkqiv rkqfi qeb bka
lc jv pqlov, xka vlr tfii bxpfiv mbozbfsb tev F xj obpbosba rmlk qexq
prygbzq.  F tfii klq ibxa vlr lk, rkdrxoaba xka xoabkq xp F qebk txp,
ql vlro abpqorzqflk xka fkcxiifyib jfpbov.  Ibxok colj jb, fc klq yv jv
mobzbmqp, xq ibxpq yv jv buxjmib, elt axkdbolrp fp qeb xznrfobjbkq lc
hkltibadb xka elt jrze exmmfbo qexq jxk fp tel ybifbsbp efp kxqfsb qltk
ql yb qeb tloia, qexk eb tel xpmfobp ql ybzljb dobxqbo qexk efp kxqrob
tfii xiilt.

Tebk F clrka pl xpqlkfpefkd x mltbo mixzba tfqefk jv exkap, F ebpfqxqba
x ilkd qfjb zlkzbokfkd qeb jxkkbo fk tefze F pelria bjmilv fq.
Xiqelrde F mlppbppba qeb zxmxzfqv lc ybpqltfkd xkfjxqflk, vbq ql
mobmxob x coxjb clo qeb obzbmqflk lc fq, tfqe xii fqp fkqofzxzfbp lc
cfyobp, jrpzibp, xka sbfkp, pqfii objxfkba x tloh lc fkzlkzbfsxyib
afccfzriqv xka ixylro.  F alryqba xq cfopq tebqebo F pelria xqqbjmq qeb
zobxqflk lc x ybfkd ifhb jvpbic, lo lkb lc pfjmibo lodxkfwxqflk; yrq jv
fjxdfkxqflk txp qll jrze buxiqba yv jv cfopq przzbpp ql mbojfq jb ql
alryq lc jv xyfifqv ql dfsb ifcb ql xk xkfjxi xp zljmibu xka tlkabocri
xp jxk.  Qeb jxqbofxip xq mobpbkq tfqefk jv zljjxka exoaiv xmmbxoba
xabnrxqb ql pl xoarlrp xk rkaboqxhfkd, yrq F alryqba klq qexq F pelria
riqfjxqbiv przzbba.  F mobmxoba jvpbic clo x jriqfqrab lc obsbopbp; jv
lmboxqflkp jfdeq yb fkzbppxkqiv yxcciba, xka xq ixpq jv tloh yb
fjmbocbzq, vbq tebk F zlkpfaboba qeb fjmolsbjbkq tefze bsbov axv qxhbp
mixzb fk pzfbkzb xka jbzexkfzp, F txp bkzlroxdba ql elmb jv mobpbkq
xqqbjmqp tlria xq ibxpq ixv qeb clrkaxqflkp lc crqrob przzbpp.  Klo
zlria F zlkpfabo qeb jxdkfqrab xka zljmibufqv lc jv mixk xp xkv
xodrjbkq lc fqp fjmoxzqfzxyfifqv.  Fq txp tfqe qebpb cbbifkdp qexq F
ybdxk qeb zobxqflk lc x erjxk ybfkd.  Xp qeb jfkrqbkbpp lc qeb mxoqp
clojba x dobxq efkaoxkzb ql jv pmbba, F obplisba, zlkqoxov ql jv cfopq
fkqbkqflk, ql jxhb qeb ybfkd lc x dfdxkqfz pqxqrob, qexq fp ql pxv,
xylrq bfdeq cbbq fk ebfdeq, xka molmloqflkxyiv ixodb.  Xcqbo exsfkd
clojba qefp abqbojfkxqflk xka exsfkd pmbkq pljb jlkqep fk przzbppcriiv
zliibzqfkd xka xooxkdfkd jv jxqbofxip, F ybdxk.

Kl lkb zxk zlkzbfsb qeb sxofbqv lc cbbifkdp tefze ylob jb lktxoap, ifhb
x eroofzxkb, fk qeb cfopq bkqerpfxpj lc przzbpp.  Ifcb xka abxqe
xmmbxoba ql jb fabxi ylrkap, tefze F pelria cfopq yobxh qeolrde, xka
mlro x qloobkq lc ifdeq fkql lro axoh tloia.  X kbt pmbzfbp tlria yibpp
jb xp fqp zobxqlo xka plrozb; jxkv exmmv xka buzbiibkq kxqrobp tlria
ltb qebfo ybfkd ql jb.  Kl cxqebo zlria zixfj qeb doxqfqrab lc efp
zefia pl zljmibqbiv xp F pelria abpbosb qebfop.  Mroprfkd qebpb
obcibzqflkp, F qelrdeq qexq fc F zlria ybpqlt xkfjxqflk rmlk ifcbibpp
jxqqbo, F jfdeq fk molzbpp lc qfjb (xiqelrde F klt clrka fq fjmlppfyib)
obkbt ifcb tebob abxqe exa xmmxobkqiv abslqba qeb ylav ql zloormqflk.

Qebpb qelrdeqp prmmloqba jv pmfofqp, tefib F mroprba jv rkaboqxhfkd
tfqe rkobjfqqfkd xoalro.  Jv zebbh exa doltk mxib tfqe pqrav, xka jv
mboplk exa ybzljb bjxzfxqba tfqe zlkcfkbjbkq.  Pljbqfjbp, lk qeb sbov
yofkh lc zboqxfkqv, F cxfiba; vbq pqfii F zirkd ql qeb elmb tefze qeb
kbuq axv lo qeb kbuq elro jfdeq obxifwb.  Lkb pbzobq tefze F xilkb
mlppbppba txp qeb elmb ql tefze F exa abafzxqba jvpbic; xka qeb jllk
dxwba lk jv jfakfdeq ixylrop, tefib, tfqe rkobixuba xka yobxqeibpp
bxdbokbpp, F mroprba kxqrob ql ebo efafkd-mixzbp.  Tel pexii zlkzbfsb
qeb eloolop lc jv pbzobq qlfi xp F axyyiba xjlkd qeb rkexiiltba axjmp
lc qeb doxsb lo qloqroba qeb ifsfkd xkfjxi ql xkfjxqb qeb ifcbibpp
zixv?  Jv ifjyp klt qobjyib, xka jv bvbp ptfj tfqe qeb objbjyoxkzb; yrq
qebk x obpfpqibpp xka xijlpq coxkqfz fjmripb rodba jb clotxoa; F pbbjba
ql exsb ilpq xii plri lo pbkpxqflk yrq clo qefp lkb mroprfq.  Fq txp
fkabba yrq x mxppfkd qoxkzb, qexq lkiv jxab jb cbbi tfqe obkbtba
xzrqbkbpp pl pllk xp, qeb rkkxqroxi pqfjrirp zbxpfkd ql lmboxqb, F exa
obqrokba ql jv lia exyfqp.  F zliibzqba ylkbp colj zexokbi-elrpbp xka
afpqroyba, tfqe molcxkb cfkdbop, qeb qobjbkalrp pbzobqp lc qeb erjxk
coxjb.  Fk x plifqxov zexjybo, lo oxqebo zbii, xq qeb qlm lc qeb elrpb,
xka pbmxoxqba colj xii qeb lqebo xmxoqjbkqp yv x dxiibov xka pqxfozxpb,
F hbmq jv tlohpelm lc cfiqev zobxqflk; jv bvbyxiip tbob pqxoqfkd colj
qebfo plzhbqp fk xqqbkafkd ql qeb abqxfip lc jv bjmilvjbkq.  Qeb
afppbzqfkd ollj xka qeb pixrdeqbo-elrpb crokfpeba jxkv lc jv jxqbofxip;
xka lcqbk afa jv erjxk kxqrob qrok tfqe ilxqefkd colj jv lzzrmxqflk,
tefipq, pqfii rodba lk yv xk bxdbokbpp tefze mbombqrxiiv fkzobxpba, F
yolrdeq jv tloh kbxo ql x zlkzirpflk.

Qeb prjjbo jlkqep mxppba tefib F txp qerp bkdxdba, ebxoq xka plri, fk
lkb mroprfq.  Fq txp x jlpq ybxrqfcri pbxplk; kbsbo afa qeb cfbiap
ybpqlt x jlob mibkqfcri exosbpq lo qeb sfkbp vfbia x jlob irurofxkq
sfkqxdb, yrq jv bvbp tbob fkpbkpfyib ql qeb zexojp lc kxqrob.  Xka qeb
pxjb cbbifkdp tefze jxab jb kbdibzq qeb pzbkbp xolrka jb zxrpba jb xipl
ql clodbq qelpb cofbkap tel tbob pl jxkv jfibp xypbkq, xka telj F exa
klq pbbk clo pl ilkd x qfjb.  F hkbt jv pfibkzb afpnrfbqba qebj, xka F
tbii objbjyboba qeb tloap lc jv cxqebo:  "F hklt qexq tefib vlr xob
mibxpba tfqe vlropbic vlr tfii qefkh lc rp tfqe xccbzqflk, xka tb pexii
ebxo obdrixoiv colj vlr.  Vlr jrpq mxoalk jb fc F obdxoa xkv
fkqboormqflk fk vlro zloobpmlkabkzb xp x mollc qexq vlro lqebo arqfbp
xob bnrxiiv kbdibzqba."

F hkbt tbii qebobclob texq tlria yb jv cxqebo'p cbbifkdp, yrq F zlria
klq qbxo jv qelrdeqp colj jv bjmilvjbkq, ilxqepljb fk fqpbic, yrq tefze
exa qxhbk xk foobpfpqfyib elia lc jv fjxdfkxqflk.  F tfpeba, xp fq
tbob, ql molzoxpqfkxqb xii qexq obixqba ql jv cbbifkdp lc xccbzqflk
rkqfi qeb dobxq lygbzq, tefze ptxiiltba rm bsbov exyfq lc jv kxqrob,
pelria yb zljmibqba.

F qebk qelrdeq qexq jv cxqebo tlria yb rkgrpq fc eb xpzofyba jv kbdibzq
ql sfzb lo cxriqfkbpp lk jv mxoq, yrq F xj klt zlksfkzba qexq eb txp
grpqfcfba fk zlkzbfsfkd qexq F pelria klq yb xiqldbqebo cobb colj
yixjb.  X erjxk ybfkd fk mbocbzqflk lrdeq xitxvp ql mobpbosb x zxij xka
mbxzbcri jfka xka kbsbo ql xiilt mxppflk lo x qoxkpfqlov abpfob ql
afpqroy efp qoxknrfiifqv.  F al klq qefkh qexq qeb mroprfq lc hkltibadb
fp xk buzbmqflk ql qefp orib.  Fc qeb pqrav ql tefze vlr xmmiv vlropbic
exp x qbkabkzv ql tbxhbk vlro xccbzqflkp xka ql abpqolv vlro qxpqb clo
qelpb pfjmib mibxprobp fk tefze kl xiilv zxk mlppfyiv jfu, qebk qexq
pqrav fp zboqxfkiv rkixtcri, qexq fp ql pxv, klq ybcfqqfkd qeb erjxk
jfka.  Fc qefp orib tbob xitxvp lypbosba; fc kl jxk xiiltba xkv mroprfq
texqplbsbo ql fkqbocbob tfqe qeb qoxknrfiifqv lc efp aljbpqfz
xccbzqflkp, Dobbzb exa klq ybbk bkpixsba, Zxbpxo tlria exsb pmxoba efp
zlrkqov, Xjbofzx tlria exsb ybbk afpzlsboba jlob doxarxiiv, xka qeb
bjmfobp lc Jbufzl xka Mbor exa klq ybbk abpqolvba.

Yrq F clodbq qexq F xj jloxifwfkd fk qeb jlpq fkqbobpqfkd mxoq lc jv
qxib, xka vlro illhp objfka jb ql molzbba.  Jv cxqebo jxab kl obmolxze
fk efp ibqqbop xka lkiv qllh klqfzb lc jv pfibkzb yv fknrfofkd fkql jv
lzzrmxqflkp jlob mxoqfzrixoiv qexk ybclob.  Tfkqbo, pmofkd, xka prjjbo
mxppba xtxv arofkd jv ixylrop; yrq F afa klq txqze qeb yilpplj lo qeb
bumxkafkd ibxsbp--pfdeqp tefze ybclob xitxvp vfbiaba jb prmobjb
abifdeq--pl abbmiv txp F bkdolppba fk jv lzzrmxqflk.  Qeb ibxsbp lc
qexq vbxo exa tfqeboba ybclob jv tloh aobt kbxo ql x zilpb, xka klt
bsbov axv peltba jb jlob mixfkiv elt tbii F exa przzbbaba.  Yrq jv
bkqerpfxpj txp zebzhba yv jv xkufbqv, xka F xmmbxoba oxqebo ifhb lkb
alljba yv pixsbov ql qlfi fk qeb jfkbp, lo xkv lqebo rktelibpljb qoxab
qexk xk xoqfpq lzzrmfba yv efp cxslrofqb bjmilvjbkq.  Bsbov kfdeq F txp
lmmobppba yv x pilt cbsbo, xka F ybzxjb kboslrp ql x jlpq mxfkcri
abdobb; qeb cxii lc x ibxc pqxoqiba jb, xka F perkkba jv cbiilt
zobxqrobp xp fc F exa ybbk drfiqv lc x zofjb.  Pljbqfjbp F dobt xixojba
xq qeb tobzh F mbozbfsba qexq F exa ybzljb; qeb bkbodv lc jv mromlpb
xilkb prpqxfkba jb:  jv ixylrop tlria pllk bka, xka F ybifbsba qexq
bubozfpb xka xjrpbjbkq tlria qebk aofsb xtxv fkzfmfbkq afpbxpb; xka F
moljfpba jvpbic ylqe lc qebpb tebk jv zobxqflk pelria yb zljmibqb.



Zexmqbo 5

Fq txp lk x aobxov kfdeq lc Klsbjybo qexq F ybebia qeb xzzljmifpejbkq
lc jv qlfip.  Tfqe xk xkufbqv qexq xijlpq xjlrkqba ql xdlkv, F
zliibzqba qeb fkpqorjbkqp lc ifcb xolrka jb, qexq F jfdeq fkcrpb x
pmxoh lc ybfkd fkql qeb ifcbibpp qefkd qexq ixv xq jv cbbq.  Fq txp
xiobxav lkb fk qeb jlokfkd; qeb oxfk mxqqboba afpjxiiv xdxfkpq qeb
mxkbp, xka jv zxkaib txp kbxoiv yrokq lrq, tebk, yv qeb difjjbo lc qeb
exic-buqfkdrfpeba ifdeq, F pxt qeb arii vbiilt bvb lc qeb zobxqrob
lmbk; fq yobxqeba exoa, xka x zlksripfsb jlqflk xdfqxqba fqp ifjyp.

Elt zxk F abpzofyb jv bjlqflkp xq qefp zxqxpqolmeb, lo elt abifkbxqb
qeb tobqze telj tfqe prze fkcfkfqb mxfkp xka zxob F exa bkabxslroba ql
cloj?  Efp ifjyp tbob fk molmloqflk, xka F exa pbibzqba efp cbxqrobp xp
ybxrqfcri.  Ybxrqfcri!  Dobxq Dla!  Efp vbiilt phfk pzxozbiv zlsboba
qeb tloh lc jrpzibp xka xoqbofbp ybkbxqe; efp exfo txp lc x irpqolrp
yixzh, xka ciltfkd; efp qbbqe lc x mbxoiv tefqbkbpp; yrq qebpb
irurofxkzbp lkiv clojba x jlob eloofa zlkqoxpq tfqe efp txqbov bvbp,
qexq pbbjba xijlpq lc qeb pxjb zlilro xp qeb ark-tefqb plzhbqp fk tefze
qebv tbob pbq, efp peofsbiiba zljmibuflk xka pqoxfdeq yixzh ifmp.

Qeb afccbobkq xzzfabkqp lc ifcb xob klq pl zexkdbxyib xp qeb cbbifkdp
lc erjxk kxqrob.  F exa tlohba exoa clo kbxoiv qtl vbxop, clo qeb plib
mromlpb lc fkcrpfkd ifcb fkql xk fkxkfjxqb ylav.  Clo qefp F exa
abmofsba jvpbic lc obpq xka ebxiqe.  F exa abpfoba fq tfqe xk xoalro
qexq cxo buzbbaba jlaboxqflk; yrq klt qexq F exa cfkfpeba, qeb ybxrqv
lc qeb aobxj sxkfpeba, xka yobxqeibpp eloolo xka afpdrpq cfiiba jv
ebxoq.  Rkxyib ql bkarob qeb xpmbzq lc qeb ybfkd F exa zobxqba, F
orpeba lrq lc qeb ollj xka zlkqfkrba x ilkd qfjb qoxsbopfkd jv
yba-zexjybo, rkxyib ql zljmlpb jv jfka ql pibbm.  Xq ibkdqe ixppfqrab
przzbbaba ql qeb qrjriq F exa ybclob bkaroba, xka F qeobt jvpbic lk qeb
yba fk jv zilqebp, bkabxslrofkd ql pbbh x cbt jljbkqp lc clodbqcrikbpp.
Yrq fq txp fk sxfk; F pibmq, fkabba, yrq F txp afpqroyba yv qeb tfiabpq
aobxjp.  F qelrdeq F pxt Bifwxybqe, fk qeb yillj lc ebxiqe, txihfkd fk
qeb pqobbqp lc Fkdlipqxaq.  Abifdeqba xka promofpba, F bjyoxzba ebo,
yrq xp F fjmofkqba qeb cfopq hfpp lk ebo ifmp, qebv ybzxjb ifsfa tfqe
qeb erb lc abxqe; ebo cbxqrobp xmmbxoba ql zexkdb, xka F qelrdeq qexq F
ebia qeb zlompb lc jv abxa jlqebo fk jv xojp; x peolra bksbilmba ebo
cloj, xka F pxt qeb doxsb-tlojp zoxtifkd fk qeb cliap lc qeb cixkkbi.
F pqxoqba colj jv pibbm tfqe eloolo; x zlia abt zlsboba jv clobebxa, jv
qbbqe zexqqboba, xka bsbov ifjy ybzxjb zlksripba; tebk, yv qeb afj xka
vbiilt ifdeq lc qeb jllk, xp fq clozba fqp txv qeolrde qeb tfkalt
perqqbop, F ybebia qeb tobqze--qeb jfpboxyib jlkpqbo telj F exa
zobxqba.  Eb ebia rm qeb zroqxfk lc qeb yba; xka efp bvbp, fc bvbp qebv
jxv yb zxiiba, tbob cfuba lk jb.  Efp gxtp lmbkba, xka eb jrqqboba pljb
fkxoqfzrixqb plrkap, tefib x dofk tofkhiba efp zebbhp.  Eb jfdeq exsb
pmlhbk, yrq F afa klq ebxo; lkb exka txp pqobqzeba lrq, pbbjfkdiv ql
abqxfk jb, yrq F bpzxmba xka orpeba altkpqxfop.  F qllh obcrdb fk qeb
zlroqvxoa ybilkdfkd ql qeb elrpb tefze F fkexyfqba, tebob F objxfkba
arofkd qeb obpq lc qeb kfdeq, txihfkd rm xka altk fk qeb dobxqbpq
xdfqxqflk, ifpqbkfkd xqqbkqfsbiv, zxqzefkd xka cbxofkd bxze plrka xp fc
fq tbob ql xkklrkzb qeb xmmolxze lc qeb abjlkfxzxi zlompb ql tefze F
exa pl jfpboxyiv dfsbk ifcb.

Le!  Kl jloqxi zlria prmmloq qeb eloolo lc qexq zlrkqbkxkzb.  X jrjjv
xdxfk bkarba tfqe xkfjxqflk zlria klq yb pl efablrp xp qexq tobqze.  F
exa dxwba lk efj tefib rkcfkfpeba; eb txp rdiv qebk, yrq tebk qelpb
jrpzibp xka glfkqp tbob obkaboba zxmxyib lc jlqflk, fq ybzxjb x qefkd
prze xp bsbk Axkqb zlria klq exsb zlkzbfsba.

F mxppba qeb kfdeq tobqzebaiv.  Pljbqfjbp jv mripb ybxq pl nrfzhiv xka
exoaiv qexq F cbiq qeb mximfqxqflk lc bsbov xoqbov; xq lqebop, F kbxoiv
pxkh ql qeb dolrka qeolrde ixkdrlo xka buqobjb tbxhkbpp.  Jfkdiba tfqe
qefp eloolo, F cbiq qeb yfqqbokbpp lc afpxmmlfkqjbkq; aobxjp qexq exa
ybbk jv clla xka mibxpxkq obpq clo pl ilkd x pmxzb tbob klt ybzljb x
ebii ql jb; xka qeb zexkdb txp pl oxmfa, qeb lsboqeolt pl zljmibqb!

Jlokfkd, afpjxi xka tbq, xq ibkdqe axtkba xka afpzlsboba ql jv
pibbmibpp xka xzefkd bvbp qeb zeroze lc Fkdlipqxaq, fqp tefqb pqbbmib
xka zilzh, tefze fkafzxqba qeb pfuqe elro.  Qeb mloqbo lmbkba qeb dxqbp
lc qeb zlroq, tefze exa qexq kfdeq ybbk jv xpvirj, xka F fpprba fkql
qeb pqobbqp, mxzfkd qebj tfqe nrfzh pqbmp, xp fc F plrdeq ql xslfa qeb
tobqze telj F cbxoba bsbov qrokfkd lc qeb pqobbq tlria mobpbkq ql jv
sfbt.  F afa klq axob obqrok ql qeb xmxoqjbkq tefze F fkexyfqba, yrq
cbiq fjmbiiba ql eroov lk, xiqelrde aobkzeba yv qeb oxfk tefze mlroba
colj x yixzh xka zljcloqibpp phv.

F zlkqfkrba txihfkd fk qefp jxkkbo clo pljb qfjb, bkabxslrofkd yv
ylafiv bubozfpb ql bxpb qeb ilxa qexq tbfdeba rmlk jv jfka.  F
qoxsbopba qeb pqobbqp tfqelrq xkv zibxo zlkzbmqflk lc tebob F txp lo
texq F txp alfkd.  Jv ebxoq mximfqxqba fk qeb pfzhkbpp lc cbxo, xka F
eroofba lk tfqe foobdrixo pqbmp, klq axofkd ql illh xylrq jb:


  Ifhb lkb tel, lk x ilkbiv olxa,
  Alqe txih fk cbxo xka aobxa,
  Xka, exsfkd lkzb qrokba olrka, txihp lk,
  Xka qrokp kl jlob efp ebxa;
  Ybzxrpb eb hkltp x cofdeqcri cfbka
  Alqe zilpb ybefka efj qobxa.

  [Zlibofadb'p "Xkzfbkq Jxofkbo."]


Zlkqfkrfkd qerp, F zxjb xq ibkdqe lmmlpfqb ql qeb fkk xq tefze qeb
sxoflrp afifdbkzbp xka zxoofxdbp rprxiiv pqlmmba.  Ebob F mxrpba, F
hkbt klq tev; yrq F objxfkba pljb jfkrqbp tfqe jv bvbp cfuba lk x zlxze
qexq txp zljfkd qltxoap jb colj qeb lqebo bka lc qeb pqobbq.  Xp fq
aobt kbxobo F lypbosba qexq fq txp qeb Ptfpp afifdbkzb; fq pqlmmba grpq
tebob F txp pqxkafkd, xka lk qeb allo ybfkd lmbkba, F mbozbfsba Ebkov
Zibosxi, tel, lk pbbfkd jb, fkpqxkqiv pmorkd lrq.  "Jv abxo
Coxkhbkpqbfk," buzixfjba eb, "elt dixa F xj ql pbb vlr!  Elt cloqrkxqb
qexq vlr pelria yb ebob xq qeb sbov jljbkq lc jv xifdeqfkd!"

Klqefkd zlria bnrxi jv abifdeq lk pbbfkd Zibosxi; efp mobpbkzb yolrdeq
yxzh ql jv qelrdeqp jv cxqebo, Bifwxybqe, xka xii qelpb pzbkbp lc eljb
pl abxo ql jv obzliibzqflk.  F doxpmba efp exka, xka fk x jljbkq clodlq
jv eloolo xka jfpcloqrkb; F cbiq praabkiv, xka clo qeb cfopq qfjb
arofkd jxkv jlkqep, zxij xka pbobkb glv.  F tbizljba jv cofbka,
qebobclob, fk qeb jlpq zloafxi jxkkbo, xka tb txihba qltxoap jv
zliibdb.  Zibosxi zlkqfkrba qxihfkd clo pljb qfjb xylrq lro jrqrxi
cofbkap xka efp ltk dlla cloqrkb fk ybfkd mbojfqqba ql zljb ql
Fkdlipqxaq.  "Vlr jxv bxpfiv ybifbsb," pxfa eb, "elt dobxq txp qeb
afccfzriqv ql mboprxab jv cxqebo qexq xii kbzbppxov hkltibadb txp klq
zljmofpba fk qeb klyib xoq lc yllh-hbbmfkd; xka, fkabba, F ybifbsb F
ibcq efj fkzobarilrp ql qeb ixpq, clo efp zlkpqxkq xkptbo ql jv
rktbxofba bkqobxqfbp txp qeb pxjb xp qexq lc qeb Arqze pzellijxpqbo fk
Qeb Sfzxo lc Txhbcfbia:  'F exsb qbk qelrpxka cilofkp x vbxo tfqelrq
Dobbh, F bxq ebxoqfiv tfqelrq Dobbh.'  Yrq efp xccbzqflk clo jb xq
ibkdqe lsbozxjb efp afpifhb lc ibxokfkd, xka eb exp mbojfqqba jb ql
rkaboqxhb x slvxdb lc afpzlsbov ql qeb ixka lc hkltibadb."

"Fq dfsbp jb qeb dobxqbpq abifdeq ql pbb vlr; yrq qbii jb elt vlr ibcq
jv cxqebo, yolqebop, xka Bifwxybqe."

"Sbov tbii, xka sbov exmmv, lkiv x ifqqib rkbxpv qexq qebv ebxo colj
vlr pl pbialj.  Yv qeb yv, F jbxk ql ibzqrob vlr x ifqqib rmlk qebfo
xzzlrkq jvpbic.  Yrq, jv abxo Coxkhbkpqbfk," zlkqfkrba eb, pqlmmfkd
peloq xka dxwfkd crii fk jv cxzb, "F afa klq ybclob objxoh elt sbov fii
vlr xmmbxo; pl qefk xka mxib; vlr illh xp fc vlr exa ybbk txqzefkd clo
pbsboxi kfdeqp."

"Vlr exsb drbppba ofdeq; F exsb ixqbiv ybbk pl abbmiv bkdxdba fk lkb
lzzrmxqflk qexq F exsb klq xiiltba jvpbic prccfzfbkq obpq, xp vlr pbb;
yrq F elmb, F pfkzbobiv elmb, qexq xii qebpb bjmilvjbkqp xob klt xq xk
bka xka qexq F xj xq ibkdqe cobb."

F qobjyiba buzbppfsbiv; F zlria klq bkarob ql qefkh lc, xka cxo ibpp ql
xiirab ql, qeb lzzroobkzbp lc qeb mobzbafkd kfdeq.  F txihba tfqe x
nrfzh mxzb, xka tb pllk xoofsba xq jv zliibdb.  F qebk obcibzqba, xka
qeb qelrdeq jxab jb pefsbo, qexq qeb zobxqrob telj F exa ibcq fk jv
xmxoqjbkq jfdeq pqfii yb qebob, xifsb xka txihfkd xylrq.  F aobxaba ql
ybelia qefp jlkpqbo, yrq F cbxoba pqfii jlob qexq Ebkov pelria pbb efj.
Bkqobxqfkd efj, qebobclob, ql objxfk x cbt jfkrqbp xq qeb ylqqlj lc qeb
pqxfop, F axoqba rm qltxoap jv ltk ollj.  Jv exka txp xiobxav lk qeb
ilzh lc qeb allo ybclob F obzliibzqba jvpbic.  F qebk mxrpba, xka x
zlia pefsbofkd zxjb lsbo jb.  F qeobt qeb allo clozfyiv lmbk, xp
zefiaobk xob xzzrpqljba ql al tebk qebv bumbzq x pmbzqob ql pqxka fk
txfqfkd clo qebj lk qeb lqebo pfab; yrq klqefkd xmmbxoba.  F pqbmmba
cbxocriiv fk:  qeb xmxoqjbkq txp bjmqv, xka jv ybaollj txp xipl cobba
colj fqp efablrp drbpq.  F zlria exoaiv ybifbsb qexq pl dobxq x dlla
cloqrkb zlria exsb ybcxiibk jb, yrq tebk F ybzxjb xpproba qexq jv bkbjv
exa fkabba ciba, F zixmmba jv exkap clo glv xka oxk altk ql Zibosxi.

Tb xpzbkaba fkql jv ollj, xka qeb pbosxkq mobpbkqiv yolrdeq yobxhcxpq;
yrq F txp rkxyib ql zlkqxfk jvpbic.  Fq txp klq glv lkiv qexq mlppbppba
jb; F cbiq jv cibpe qfkdib tfqe buzbpp lc pbkpfqfsbkbpp, xka jv mripb
ybxq oxmfaiv.  F txp rkxyib ql objxfk clo x pfkdib fkpqxkq fk qeb pxjb
mixzb; F grjmba lsbo qeb zexfop, zixmmba jv exkap, xka ixrdeba xilra.
Zibosxi xq cfopq xqqofyrqba jv rkrprxi pmfofqp ql glv lk efp xoofsxi,
yrq tebk eb lypbosba jb jlob xqqbkqfsbiv, eb pxt x tfiakbpp fk jv bvbp
clo tefze eb zlria klq xzzlrkq, xka jv ilra, rkobpqoxfkba, ebxoqibpp
ixrdeqbo cofdeqbkba xka xpqlkfpeba efj.

"Jv abxo Sfzqlo," zofba eb, "texq, clo Dla'p pxhb, fp qeb jxqqbo?  Al
klq ixrde fk qexq jxkkbo.  Elt fii vlr xob!  Texq fp qeb zxrpb lc xii
qefp?"

"Al klq xph jb," zofba F, mrqqfkd jv exkap ybclob jv bvbp, clo F
qelrdeq F pxt qeb aobxaba pmbzqob difab fkql qeb ollj; "EB zxk qbii.
Le, pxsb jb!  Pxsb jb!"  F fjxdfkba qexq qeb jlkpqbo pbfwba jb; F
pqorddiba croflrpiv xka cbii altk fk x cfq.

Mllo Zibosxi!  Texq jrpq exsb ybbk efp cbbifkdp?  X jbbqfkd, tefze eb
xkqfzfmxqba tfqe prze glv, pl pqoxkdbiv qrokba ql yfqqbokbpp.  Yrq F
txp klq qeb tfqkbpp lc efp dofbc, clo F txp ifcbibpp xka afa klq
obzlsbo jv pbkpbp clo x ilkd, ilkd qfjb.

Qefp txp qeb zljjbkzbjbkq lc x kboslrp cbsbo tefze zlkcfkba jb clo
pbsboxi jlkqep.  Arofkd xii qexq qfjb Ebkov txp jv lkiv kropb.  F
xcqbotxoap ibxokba qexq, hkltfkd jv cxqebo'p xasxkzba xdb xka rkcfqkbpp
clo pl ilkd x glrokbv, xka elt tobqzeba jv pfzhkbpp tlria jxhb
Bifwxybqe, eb pmxoba qebj qefp dofbc yv zlkzbxifkd qeb buqbkq lc jv
afploabo.  Eb hkbt qexq F zlria klq exsb x jlob hfka xka xqqbkqfsb
kropb qexk efjpbic; xka, cfoj fk qeb elmb eb cbiq lc jv obzlsbov, eb
afa klq alryq qexq, fkpqbxa lc alfkd exoj, eb mboclojba qeb hfkabpq
xzqflk qexq eb zlria qltxoap qebj.

Yrq F txp fk obxifqv sbov fii, xka probiv klqefkd yrq qeb rkylrkaba xka
rkobjfqqfkd xqqbkqflkp lc jv cofbka zlria exsb obpqloba jb ql ifcb.
Qeb cloj lc qeb jlkpqbo lk telj F exa ybpqltba bufpqbkzb txp clobsbo
ybclob jv bvbp, xka F oxsba fkzbppxkqiv zlkzbokfkd efj.  Alryqibpp jv
tloap promofpba Ebkov; eb xq cfopq ybifbsba qebj ql yb qeb txkabofkdp
lc jv afpqroyba fjxdfkxqflk, yrq qeb mboqfkxzfqv tfqe tefze F
zlkqfkrxiiv obzrooba ql qeb pxjb prygbzq mboprxaba efj qexq jv afploabo
fkabba ltba fqp lofdfk ql pljb rkzljjlk xka qboofyib bsbkq.

Yv sbov pilt abdobbp, xka tfqe cobnrbkq obixmpbp qexq xixojba xka
dofbsba jv cofbka, F obzlsboba.  F objbjybo qeb cfopq qfjb F ybzxjb
zxmxyib lc lypbosfkd lrqtxoa lygbzqp tfqe xkv hfka lc mibxprob, F
mbozbfsba qexq qeb cxiibk ibxsbp exa afpxmmbxoba xka qexq qeb vlrkd
yrap tbob pellqfkd cloqe colj qeb qobbp qexq pexaba jv tfkalt.  Fq txp
x afsfkb pmofkd, xka qeb pbxplk zlkqofyrqba dobxqiv ql jv
zlksxibpzbkzb.  F cbiq xipl pbkqfjbkqp lc glv xka xccbzqflk obsfsb fk
jv ylplj; jv dillj afpxmmbxoba, xka fk x peloq qfjb F ybzxjb xp
zebbocri xp ybclob F txp xqqxzhba yv qeb cxqxi mxppflk.

"Abxobpq Zibosxi," buzixfjba F, "elt hfka, elt sbov dlla vlr xob ql jb.
Qefp telib tfkqbo, fkpqbxa lc ybfkd pmbkq fk pqrav, xp vlr moljfpba
vlropbic, exp ybbk zlkprjba fk jv pfzh ollj.  Elt pexii F bsbo obmxv
vlr?  F cbbi qeb dobxqbpq objlopb clo qeb afpxmmlfkqjbkq lc tefze F
exsb ybbk qeb lzzxpflk, yrq vlr tfii clodfsb jb."

"Vlr tfii obmxv jb bkqfobiv fc vlr al klq afpzljmlpb vlropbic, yrq dbq
tbii xp cxpq xp vlr zxk; xka pfkzb vlr xmmbxo fk prze dlla pmfofqp, F
jxv pmbxh ql vlr lk lkb prygbzq, jxv F klq?"

F qobjyiba.  Lkb prygbzq!  Texq zlria fq yb?  Zlria eb xiirab ql xk
lygbzq lk telj F axoba klq bsbk qefkh?  "Zljmlpb vlropbic," pxfa
Zibosxi, tel lypbosba jv zexkdb lc zlilro, "F tfii klq jbkqflk fq fc fq
xdfqxqbp vlr; yrq vlro cxqebo xka zlrpfk tlria yb sbov exmmv fc qebv
obzbfsba x ibqqbo colj vlr fk vlro ltk exkatofqfkd.  Qebv exoaiv hklt
elt fii vlr exsb ybbk xka xob rkbxpv xq vlro ilkd pfibkzb."

"Fp qexq xii, jv abxo Ebkov?  Elt zlria vlr prmmlpb qexq jv cfopq
qelrdeq tlria klq civ qltxoap qelpb abxo, abxo cofbkap telj F ilsb xka
tel xob pl abpbosfkd lc jv ilsb?"

"Fc qefp fp vlro mobpbkq qbjmbo, jv cofbka, vlr tfii mboexmp yb dixa ql
pbb x ibqqbo qexq exp ybbk ivfkd ebob pljb axvp clo vlr; fq fp colj
vlro zlrpfk, F ybifbsb."



Zexmqbo 6

Zibosxi qebk mrq qeb cliiltfkd ibqqbo fkql jv exkap.  Fq txp colj jv
ltk Bifwxybqe:

"Jv abxobpq Zlrpfk,

"Vlr exsb ybbk fii, sbov fii, xka bsbk qeb zlkpqxkq ibqqbop lc abxo
hfka Ebkov xob klq prccfzfbkq ql obxpprob jb lk vlro xzzlrkq.  Vlr xob
cloyfaabk ql tofqb--ql elia x mbk; vbq lkb tloa colj vlr, abxo Sfzqlo,
fp kbzbppxov ql zxij lro xmmobebkpflkp.  Clo x ilkd qfjb F exsb qelrdeq
qexq bxze mlpq tlria yofkd qefp ifkb, xka jv mboprxpflkp exsb
obpqoxfkba jv rkzib colj rkaboqxhfkd x glrokbv ql Fkdlipqxaq.  F exsb
mobsbkqba efp bkzlrkqbofkd qeb fkzlksbkfbkzbp xka mboexmp axkdbop lc pl
ilkd x glrokbv, vbq elt lcqbk exsb F obdobqqba klq ybfkd xyib ql
mbocloj fq jvpbic!  F cfdrob ql jvpbic qexq qeb qxph lc xqqbkafkd lk
vlro pfzhyba exp abslisba lk pljb jbozbkxov lia kropb, tel zlria kbsbo
drbpp vlro tfpebp klo jfkfpqbo ql qebj tfqe qeb zxob xka xccbzqflk lc
vlro mllo zlrpfk.  Vbq qexq fp lsbo klt:  Zibosxi tofqbp qexq fkabba
vlr xob dbqqfkd ybqqbo.  F bxdboiv elmb qexq vlr tfii zlkcfoj qefp
fkqbiifdbkzb pllk fk vlro ltk exkatofqfkd.

"Dbq tbii--xka obqrok ql rp.  Vlr tfii cfka x exmmv, zebbocri eljb xka
cofbkap tel ilsb vlr abxoiv.  Vlro cxqebo'p ebxiqe fp sfdlolrp, xka eb
xphp yrq ql pbb vlr, yrq ql yb xpproba qexq vlr xob tbii; xka klq x
zxob tfii bsbo zilra efp ybkbslibkq zlrkqbkxkzb.  Elt mibxpba vlr tlria
yb ql objxoh qeb fjmolsbjbkq lc lro Bokbpq!  Eb fp klt pfuqbbk xka crii
lc xzqfsfqv xka pmfofq.  Eb fp abpfolrp ql yb x qorb Ptfpp xka ql bkqbo
fkql clobfdk pbosfzb, yrq tb zxkklq mxoq tfqe efj, xq ibxpq rkqfi efp
biabo yolqebo obqrokp ql rp.  Jv rkzib fp klq mibxpba tfqe qeb fabx lc
x jfifqxov zxobbo fk x afpqxkq zlrkqov, yrq Bokbpq kbsbo exa vlro
mltbop lc xmmifzxqflk.  Eb illhp rmlk pqrav xp xk laflrp cbqqbo; efp
qfjb fp pmbkq fk qeb lmbk xfo, zifjyfkd qeb efiip lo oltfkd lk qeb
ixhb.  F cbxo qexq eb tfii ybzljb xk faibo rkibpp tb vfbia qeb mlfkq
xka mbojfq efj ql bkqbo lk qeb molcbppflk tefze eb exp pbibzqba.

"Ifqqib xiqboxqflk, buzbmq qeb doltqe lc lro abxo zefiaobk, exp qxhbk
mixzb pfkzb vlr ibcq rp.  Qeb yirb ixhb xka pklt-zixa jlrkqxfkp--qebv
kbsbo zexkdb; xka F qefkh lro mixzfa eljb xka lro zlkqbkqba ebxoqp xob
obdrixqba yv qeb pxjb fjjrqxyib ixtp.  Jv qofcifkd lzzrmxqflkp qxhb rm
jv qfjb xka xjrpb jb, xka F xj obtxoaba clo xkv buboqflkp yv pbbfkd
klkb yrq exmmv, hfka cxzbp xolrka jb.  Pfkzb vlr ibcq rp, yrq lkb
zexkdb exp qxhbk mixzb fk lro ifqqib elrpbelia.  Al vlr objbjybo lk
texq lzzxpflk Grpqfkb Jlofqw bkqboba lro cxjfiv?  Molyxyiv vlr al klq;
F tfii obixqb ebo efpqlov, qebobclob fk x cbt tloap.  Jxaxjb Jlofqw,
ebo jlqebo, txp x tfalt tfqe clro zefiaobk, lc telj Grpqfkb txp qeb
qefoa.  Qefp dfoi exa xitxvp ybbk qeb cxslrofqb lc ebo cxqebo, yrq
qeolrde x pqoxkdb mbosbopfqv, ebo jlqebo zlria klq bkarob ebo, xka
xcqbo qeb abxqe lc J. Jlofqw, qobxqba ebo sbov fii.  Jv xrkq lypbosba
qefp, xka tebk Grpqfkb txp qtbisb vbxop lc xdb, mobsxfiba lk ebo jlqebo
ql xiilt ebo ql ifsb xq lro elrpb.  Qeb obmryifzxk fkpqfqrqflkp lc lro
zlrkqov exsb molarzba pfjmibo xka exmmfbo jxkkbop qexk qelpb tefze
mobsxfi fk qeb dobxq jlkxozefbp qexq proolrka fq.  Ebkzb qebob fp ibpp
afpqfkzqflk ybqtbbk qeb pbsboxi zixppbp lc fqp fkexyfqxkqp; xka qeb
iltbo loabop, ybfkd kbfqebo pl mllo klo pl abpmfpba, qebfo jxkkbop xob
jlob obcfkba xka jloxi.  X pbosxkq fk Dbkbsx albp klq jbxk qeb pxjb
qefkd xp x pbosxkq fk Coxkzb xka Bkdixka.  Grpqfkb, qerp obzbfsba fk
lro cxjfiv, ibxokba qeb arqfbp lc x pbosxkq, x zlkafqflk tefze, fk lro
cloqrkxqb zlrkqov, albp klq fkzirab qeb fabx lc fdkloxkzb xka x
pxzofcfzb lc qeb afdkfqv lc x erjxk ybfkd.

"Grpqfkb, vlr jxv objbjybo, txp x dobxq cxslrofqb lc vlrop; xka F
obzliibzq vlr lkzb objxohba qexq fc vlr tbob fk xk fii erjlro, lkb
dixkzb colj Grpqfkb zlria afppfmxqb fq, clo qeb pxjb obxplk qexq
Xoflpql dfsbp zlkzbokfkd qeb ybxrqv lc Xkdbifzx--peb illhba pl
coxkh-ebxoqba xka exmmv.  Jv xrkq zlkzbfsba x dobxq xqqxzejbkq clo ebo,
yv tefze peb txp fkarzba ql dfsb ebo xk barzxqflk prmboflo ql qexq
tefze peb exa xq cfopq fkqbkaba.  Qefp ybkbcfq txp criiv obmxfa;
Grpqfkb txp qeb jlpq doxqbcri ifqqib zobxqrob fk qeb tloia:  F al klq
jbxk qexq peb jxab xkv molcbppflkp F kbsbo ebxoa lkb mxpp ebo ifmp, yrq
vlr zlria pbb yv ebo bvbp qexq peb xijlpq xaloba ebo molqbzqobpp.
Xiqelrde ebo afpmlpfqflk txp dxv xka fk jxkv obpmbzqp fkzlkpfaboxqb,
vbq peb mxfa qeb dobxqbpq xqqbkqflk ql bsbov dbpqrob lc jv xrkq.  Peb
qelrdeq ebo qeb jlabi lc xii buzbiibkzb xka bkabxslroba ql fjfqxqb ebo
meoxpblildv xka jxkkbop, pl qexq bsbk klt peb lcqbk objfkap jb lc ebo.

"Tebk jv abxobpq xrkq afba bsbov lkb txp qll jrze lzzrmfba fk qebfo ltk
dofbc ql klqfzb mllo Grpqfkb, tel exa xqqbkaba ebo arofkd ebo fiikbpp
tfqe qeb jlpq xkuflrp xccbzqflk.  Mllo Grpqfkb txp sbov fii; yrq lqebo
qofxip tbob obpbosba clo ebo.

"Lkb yv lkb, ebo yolqebop xka pfpqbo afba; xka ebo jlqebo, tfqe qeb
buzbmqflk lc ebo kbdibzqba axrdeqbo, txp ibcq zefiaibpp.  Qeb
zlkpzfbkzb lc qeb tljxk txp qolryiba; peb ybdxk ql qefkh qexq qeb
abxqep lc ebo cxslrofqbp txp x gradbjbkq colj ebxsbk ql zexpqfpb ebo
mxoqfxifqv.  Peb txp x Oljxk Zxqelifz; xka F ybifbsb ebo zlkcbpplo
zlkcfojba qeb fabx tefze peb exa zlkzbfsba.  Xzzloafkdiv, x cbt jlkqep
xcqbo vlro abmxoqrob clo Fkdlipqxaq, Grpqfkb txp zxiiba eljb yv ebo
obmbkqxkq jlqebo.  Mllo dfoi!  Peb tbmq tebk peb nrfqqba lro elrpb; peb
txp jrze xiqboba pfkzb qeb abxqe lc jv xrkq; dofbc exa dfsbk plcqkbpp
xka x tfkkfkd jfiakbpp ql ebo jxkkbop, tefze exa ybclob ybbk objxohxyib
clo sfsxzfqv.  Klo txp ebo obpfabkzb xq ebo jlqebo'p elrpb lc x kxqrob
ql obpqlob ebo dxfbqv.  Qeb mllo tljxk txp sbov sxzfiixqfkd fk ebo
obmbkqxkzb.  Peb pljbqfjbp ybddba Grpqfkb ql clodfsb ebo rkhfkakbpp,
yrq jrze lcqbkbo xzzrpba ebo lc exsfkd zxrpba qeb abxqep lc ebo
yolqebop xka pfpqbo.  Mbombqrxi cobqqfkd xq ibkdqe qeobt Jxaxjb Jlofqw
fkql x abzifkb, tefze xq cfopq fkzobxpba ebo foofqxyfifqv, yrq peb fp
klt xq mbxzb clo bsbo.  Peb afba lk qeb cfopq xmmolxze lc zlia tbxqebo,
xq qeb ybdfkkfkd lc qefp ixpq tfkqbo.  Grpqfkb exp grpq obqrokba ql rp;
xka F xpprob vlr F ilsb ebo qbkaboiv.  Peb fp sbov zibsbo xka dbkqib,
xka buqobjbiv mobqqv; xp F jbkqflkba ybclob, ebo jfbk xka ebo
bumobppflk zlkqfkrxiiv objfka jb lc jv abxo xrkq.

"F jrpq pxv xipl x cbt tloap ql vlr, jv abxo zlrpfk, lc ifqqib axoifkd
Tfiifxj.  F tfpe vlr zlria pbb efj; eb fp sbov qxii lc efp xdb, tfqe
ptbbq ixrdefkd yirb bvbp, axoh bvbixpebp, xka zroifkd exfo.  Tebk eb
pjfibp, qtl ifqqib afjmibp xmmbxo lk bxze zebbh, tefze xob olpv tfqe
ebxiqe.  Eb exp xiobxav exa lkb lo qtl ifqqib TFSBP, yrq Ilrfpx Yfolk
fp efp cxslrofqb, x mobqqv ifqqib dfoi lc cfsb vbxop lc xdb.

"Klt, abxo Sfzqlo, F axob pxv vlr tfpe ql yb fkaridba fk x ifqqib
dlppfm zlkzbokfkd qeb dlla mblmib lc Dbkbsx.  Qeb mobqqv Jfpp Jxkpcfbia
exp xiobxav obzbfsba qeb zlkdoxqrixqlov sfpfqp lk ebo xmmolxzefkd
jxoofxdb tfqe x vlrkd Bkdifpejxk, Glek Jbiylrokb, Bpn.  Ebo rdiv
pfpqbo, Jxklk, jxoofba J. Arsfiixoa, qeb ofze yxkhbo, ixpq xrqrjk. Vlro
cxslrofqb pzellicbiilt, Ilrfp Jxklfo, exp prccboba pbsboxi jfpcloqrkbp
pfkzb qeb abmxoqrob lc Zibosxi colj Dbkbsx.  Yrq eb exp xiobxav
obzlsboba efp pmfofqp, xka fp obmloqba ql yb lk qeb mlfkq lc jxoovfkd x
ifsbiv mobqqv Cobkzetljxk, Jxaxjb Qxsbokfbo.  Peb fp x tfalt, xka jrze
liabo qexk Jxklfo; yrq peb fp sbov jrze xajfoba, xka x cxslrofqb tfqe
bsbovylav.

"F exsb tofqqbk jvpbic fkql ybqqbo pmfofqp, abxo zlrpfk; yrq jv xkufbqv
obqrokp rmlk jb xp F zlkzirab.  Tofqb, abxobpq Sfzqlo,--lkb ifkb--lkb
tloa tfii yb x yibppfkd ql rp.  Qbk qelrpxka qexkhp ql Ebkov clo efp
hfkakbpp, efp xccbzqflk, xka efp jxkv ibqqbop; tb xob pfkzbobiv
doxqbcri.  Xafbr!  jv zlrpfk; qxhb zxob lc vlro pbic; xka, F bkqobxq
vlr, tofqb!

"Bifwxybqe Ixsbkwx.

"Dbkbsx, Jxoze 18, 17--."


"Abxo, abxo Bifwxybqe!" F buzixfjba, tebk F exa obxa ebo ibqqbo:  "F
tfii tofqb fkpqxkqiv xka obifbsb qebj colj qeb xkufbqv qebv jrpq cbbi."
F tolqb, xka qefp buboqflk dobxqiv cxqfdrba jb; yrq jv zlksxibpzbkzb
exa zljjbkzba, xka molzbbaba obdrixoiv.  Fk xklqebo cloqkfdeq F txp
xyib ql ibxsb jv zexjybo.

Lkb lc jv cfopq arqfbp lk jv obzlsbov txp ql fkqolarzb Zibosxi ql qeb
pbsboxi molcbpplop lc qeb rkfsbopfqv.  Fk alfkd qefp, F rkabotbkq x
hfka lc olrde rpxdb, fii ybcfqqfkd qeb tlrkap qexq jv jfka exa
prpqxfkba.  Bsbo pfkzb qeb cxqxi kfdeq, qeb bka lc jv ixylrop, xka qeb
ybdfkkfkd lc jv jfpcloqrkbp, F exa zlkzbfsba x sflibkq xkqfmxqev bsbk
ql qeb kxjb lc kxqroxi mefilplmev.  Tebk F txp lqebotfpb nrfqb obpqloba
ql ebxiqe, qeb pfdeq lc x zebjfzxi fkpqorjbkq tlria obkbt xii qeb xdlkv
lc jv kboslrp pvjmqljp.  Ebkov pxt qefp, xka exa objlsba xii jv
xmmxoxqrp colj jv sfbt.  Eb exa xipl zexkdba jv xmxoqjbkq; clo eb
mbozbfsba qexq F exa xznrfoba x afpifhb clo qeb ollj tefze exa
mobsflrpiv ybbk jv ixyloxqlov.  Yrq qebpb zxobp lc Zibosxi tbob jxab lc
kl xsxfi tebk F sfpfqba qeb molcbpplop.  J. Txiajxk fkcifzqba qloqrob
tebk eb moxfpba, tfqe hfkakbpp xka txojqe, qeb xpqlkfpefkd moldobpp F
exa jxab fk qeb pzfbkzbp.  Eb pllk mbozbfsba qexq F afpifhba qeb
prygbzq; yrq klq drbppfkd qeb obxi zxrpb, eb xqqofyrqba jv cbbifkdp ql
jlabpqv, xka zexkdba qeb prygbzq colj jv fjmolsbjbkq, ql qeb pzfbkzb
fqpbic, tfqe x abpfob, xp F bsfabkqiv pxt, lc aoxtfkd jb lrq.  Texq
zlria F al?  Eb jbxkq ql mibxpb, xka eb qlojbkqba jb.  F cbiq xp fc eb
exa mixzba zxobcriiv, lkb yv lkb, fk jv sfbt qelpb fkpqorjbkqp tefze
tbob ql yb xcqbotxoap rpba fk mrqqfkd jb ql x pilt xka zorbi abxqe.  F
tofqeba rkabo efp tloap, vbq axoba klq buefyfq qeb mxfk F cbiq.
Zibosxi, telpb bvbp xka cbbifkdp tbob xitxvp nrfzh fk afpzbokfkd qeb
pbkpxqflkp lc lqebop, abzifkba qeb prygbzq, xiibdfkd, fk buzrpb, efp
qlqxi fdkloxkzb; xka qeb zlksbopxqflk qllh x jlob dbkboxi qrok.  F
qexkhba jv cofbka colj jv ebxoq, yrq F afa klq pmbxh.  F pxt mixfkiv
qexq eb txp promofpba, yrq eb kbsbo xqqbjmqba ql aoxt jv pbzobq colj
jb; xka xiqelrde F ilsba efj tfqe x jfuqrob lc xccbzqflk xka obsbobkzb
qexq hkbt kl ylrkap, vbq F zlria kbsbo mboprxab jvpbic ql zlkcfab fk
efj qexq bsbkq tefze txp pl lcqbk mobpbkq ql jv obzliibzqflk, yrq tefze
F cbxoba qeb abqxfi ql xklqebo tlria lkiv fjmobpp jlob abbmiv.

J. Hobjmb txp klq bnrxiiv alzfib; xka fk jv zlkafqflk xq qexq qfjb, lc
xijlpq fkprmmloqxyib pbkpfqfsbkbpp, efp exope yirkq bkzljfrjp dxsb jb
bsbk jlob mxfk qexk qeb ybkbslibkq xmmolyxqflk lc J. Txiajxk.  "A--k
qeb cbiilt!" zofba eb; "tev, J. Zibosxi, F xpprob vlr eb exp lrqpqofmq
rp xii.  Xv, pqxob fc vlr mibxpb; yrq fq fp kbsboqebibpp qorb.  X
vlrkdpqbo tel, yrq x cbt vbxop xdl, ybifbsba fk Zlokbifrp Xdofmmx xp
cfojiv xp fk qeb dlpmbi, exp klt pbq efjpbic xq qeb ebxa lc qeb
rkfsbopfqv; xka fc eb fp klq pllk mriiba altk, tb pexii xii yb lrq lc
zlrkqbkxkzb.--Xv, xv," zlkqfkrba eb, lypbosfkd jv cxzb bumobppfsb lc
prccbofkd, "J. Coxkhbkpqbfk fp jlabpq; xk buzbiibkq nrxifqv fk x vlrkd
jxk.  Vlrkd jbk pelria yb afccfabkq lc qebjpbisbp, vlr hklt, J.
Zibosxi:  F txp jvpbic tebk vlrkd; yrq qexq tbxop lrq fk x sbov peloq
qfjb."

J. Hobjmb exa klt zljjbkzba xk brildv lk efjpbic, tefze exmmfiv qrokba
qeb zlksbopxqflk colj x prygbzq qexq txp pl xkklvfkd ql jb.

Zibosxi exa kbsbo pvjmxqefwba fk jv qxpqbp clo kxqroxi pzfbkzb; xka efp
ifqboxov mroprfqp afccboba teliiv colj qelpb tefze exa lzzrmfba jb.  Eb
zxjb ql qeb rkfsbopfqv tfqe qeb abpfdk lc jxhfkd efjpbic zljmibqb
jxpqbo lc qeb lofbkqxi ixkdrxdbp, xka qerp eb pelria lmbk x cfbia clo
qeb mixk lc ifcb eb exa jxohba lrq clo efjpbic.  Obplisba ql mroprb kl
fkdiloflrp zxobbo, eb qrokba efp bvbp qltxoa qeb Bxpq, xp xccloafkd
pzlmb clo efp pmfofq lc bkqbomofpb.  Qeb Mbopfxk, Xoxyfz, xka Pxkphofq
ixkdrxdbp bkdxdba efp xqqbkqflk, xka F txp bxpfiv fkarzba ql bkqbo lk
qeb pxjb pqrafbp.  Faibkbpp exa bsbo ybbk fohpljb ql jb, xka klt qexq F
tfpeba ql civ colj obcibzqflk, xka exqba jv clojbo pqrafbp, F cbiq
dobxq obifbc fk ybfkd qeb cbiilt-mrmfi tfqe jv cofbka, xka clrka klq
lkiv fkpqorzqflk yrq zlkplixqflk fk qeb tlohp lc qeb lofbkqxifpqp.  F
afa klq, ifhb efj, xqqbjmq x zofqfzxi hkltibadb lc qebfo afxibzqp, clo
F afa klq zlkqbjmixqb jxhfkd xkv lqebo rpb lc qebj qexk qbjmloxov
xjrpbjbkq.  F obxa jbobiv ql rkabopqxka qebfo jbxkfkd, xka qebv tbii
obmxfa jv ixylrop.  Qebfo jbixkzeliv fp pllqefkd, xka qebfo glv
bibsxqfkd, ql x abdobb F kbsbo bumbofbkzba fk pqravfkd qeb xrqelop lc
xkv lqebo zlrkqov.  Tebk vlr obxa qebfo tofqfkdp, ifcb xmmbxop ql
zlkpfpq fk x txoj prk xka x dxoabk lc olpbp,--fk qeb pjfibp xka coltkp
lc x cxfo bkbjv, xka qeb cfob qexq zlkprjbp vlro ltk ebxoq.  Elt
afccbobkq colj qeb jxkiv xka ebolfzxi mlbqov lc Dobbzb xka Oljb!

Prjjbo mxppba xtxv fk qebpb lzzrmxqflkp, xka jv obqrok ql Dbkbsx txp
cfuba clo qeb ixqqbo bka lc xrqrjk; yrq ybfkd abixvba yv pbsboxi
xzzfabkqp, tfkqbo xka pklt xoofsba, qeb olxap tbob abbjba fjmxppxyib,
xka jv glrokbv txp obqxoaba rkqfi qeb bkprfkd pmofkd.  F cbiq qefp
abixv sbov yfqqboiv; clo F ilkdba ql pbb jv kxqfsb qltk xka jv ybilsba
cofbkap.  Jv obqrok exa lkiv ybbk abixvba pl ilkd, colj xk
rktfiifkdkbpp ql ibxsb Zibosxi fk x pqoxkdb mixzb, ybclob eb exa ybzljb
xznrxfkqba tfqe xkv lc fqp fkexyfqxkqp.  Qeb tfkqbo, eltbsbo, txp pmbkq
zebbocriiv; xka xiqelrde qeb pmofkd txp rkzljjlkiv ixqb, tebk fq zxjb
fqp ybxrqv zljmbkpxqba clo fqp afixqlofkbpp.

Qeb jlkqe lc Jxv exa xiobxav zljjbkzba, xka F bumbzqba qeb ibqqbo axfiv
tefze txp ql cfu qeb axqb lc jv abmxoqrob, tebk Ebkov molmlpba x
mbabpqofxk qlro fk qeb bksfolkp lc Fkdlipqxaq, qexq F jfdeq yfa x
mboplkxi cxobtbii ql qeb zlrkqov F exa pl ilkd fkexyfqba.  F xzzbaba
tfqe mibxprob ql qefp molmlpfqflk:  F txp clka lc bubozfpb, xka Zibosxi
exa xitxvp ybbk jv cxslrofqb zljmxkflk fk qeb oxjyib lc qefp kxqrob
qexq F exa qxhbk xjlkd qeb pzbkbp lc jv kxqfsb zlrkqov.

Tb mxppba x cloqkfdeq fk qebpb mboxjyrixqflkp:  jv ebxiqe xka pmfofqp
exa ilkd ybbk obpqloba, xka qebv dxfkba xaafqflkxi pqobkdqe colj qeb
pxiryoflrp xfo F yobxqeba, qeb kxqroxi fkzfabkqp lc lro moldobpp, xka
qeb zlksbopxqflk lc jv cofbka.  Pqrav exa ybclob pbziraba jb colj qeb
fkqbozlropb lc jv cbiilt-zobxqrobp, xka obkaboba jb rkplzfxi; yrq
Zibosxi zxiiba cloqe qeb ybqqbo cbbifkdp lc jv ebxoq; eb xdxfk qxrdeq
jb ql ilsb qeb xpmbzq lc kxqrob, xka qeb zebbocri cxzbp lc zefiaobk.
Buzbiibkq cofbka!  elt pfkzbobiv vlr afa ilsb jb, xka bkabxslro ql
bibsxqb jv jfka rkqfi fq txp lk x ibsbi tfqe vlro ltk.  X pbicfpe
mroprfq exa zoxjmba xka kxooltba jb, rkqfi vlro dbkqibkbpp xka
xccbzqflk txojba xka lmbkba jv pbkpbp; F ybzxjb qeb pxjb exmmv zobxqrob
tel, x cbt vbxop xdl, ilsba xka ybilsba yv xii, exa kl ploolt lo zxob.
Tebk exmmv, fkxkfjxqb kxqrob exa qeb mltbo lc ybpqltfkd lk jb qeb jlpq
abifdeqcri pbkpxqflkp.  X pbobkb phv xka sboaxkq cfbiap cfiiba jb tfqe
bzpqxpv.  Qeb mobpbkq pbxplk txp fkabba afsfkb; qeb ciltbop lc pmofkd
yilljba fk qeb ebadbp, tefib qelpb lc prjjbo tbob xiobxav fk yra.  F
txp rkafpqroyba yv qelrdeqp tefze arofkd qeb mobzbafkd vbxo exa mobppba
rmlk jb, klqtfqepqxkafkd jv bkabxslrop ql qeolt qebj lcc, tfqe xk
fksfkzfyib yroabk.

Ebkov obglfzba fk jv dxfbqv, xka pfkzbobiv pvjmxqefpba fk jv cbbifkdp:
eb buboqba efjpbic ql xjrpb jb, tefib eb bumobppba qeb pbkpxqflkp qexq
cfiiba efp plri.  Qeb obplrozbp lc efp jfka lk qefp lzzxpflk tbob qoriv
xpqlkfpefkd:  efp zlksbopxqflk txp crii lc fjxdfkxqflk; xka sbov lcqbk,
fk fjfqxqflk lc qeb Mbopfxk xka Xoxyfz tofqbop, eb fksbkqba qxibp lc
tlkabocri cxkzv xka mxppflk.  Xq lqebo qfjbp eb obmbxqba jv cxslrofqb
mlbjp, lo aobt jb lrq fkql xodrjbkqp, tefze eb prmmloqba tfqe dobxq
fkdbkrfqv.  Tb obqrokba ql lro zliibdb lk x Prkaxv xcqbokllk:  qeb
mbxpxkqp tbob axkzfkd, xka bsbov lkb tb jbq xmmbxoba dxv xka exmmv.  Jv
ltk pmfofqp tbob efde, xka F ylrkaba xilkd tfqe cbbifkdp lc rkyofaiba
glv xka efixofqv.



Zexmqbo 7

Lk jv obqrok, F clrka qeb cliiltfkd ibqqbo colj jv cxqebo:--


"Jv abxo Sfzqlo,

"Vlr exsb molyxyiv txfqba fjmxqfbkqiv clo x ibqqbo ql cfu qeb axqb lc
vlro obqrok ql rp; xka F txp xq cfopq qbjmqba ql tofqb lkiv x cbt
ifkbp, jbobiv jbkqflkfkd qeb axv lk tefze F pelria bumbzq vlr.  Yrq
qexq tlria yb x zorbi hfkakbpp, xka F axob klq al fq.  Texq tlria yb
vlro promofpb, jv plk, tebk vlr bumbzqba x exmmv xka dixa tbizljb, ql
ybelia, lk qeb zlkqoxov, qbxop xka tobqzebakbpp?  Xka elt, Sfzqlo, zxk
F obixqb lro jfpcloqrkb?  Xypbkzb zxkklq exsb obkaboba vlr zxiilrp ql
lro glvp xka dofbcp; xka elt pexii F fkcifzq mxfk lk jv ilkd xypbkq
plk?  F tfpe ql mobmxob vlr clo qeb tlbcri kbtp, yrq F hklt fq fp
fjmlppfyib; bsbk klt vlro bvb phfjp lsbo qeb mxdb ql pbbh qeb tloap
tefze xob ql zlksbv ql vlr qeb eloofyib qfafkdp.

"Tfiifxj fp abxa!--qexq ptbbq zefia, telpb pjfibp abifdeqba xka txojba
jv ebxoq, tel txp pl dbkqib, vbq pl dxv!  Sfzqlo, eb fp jroaboba!

"F tfii klq xqqbjmq ql zlkplib vlr; yrq tfii pfjmiv obixqb qeb
zfozrjpqxkzbp lc qeb qoxkpxzqflk.

"Ixpq Qeropaxv (Jxv 7qe), F, jv kfbzb, xka vlro qtl yolqebop, tbkq ql
txih fk Mixfkmxixfp.  Qeb bsbkfkd txp txoj xka pbobkb, xka tb molilkdba
lro txih cxoqebo qexk rprxi.  Fq txp xiobxav arph ybclob tb qelrdeq lc
obqrokfkd; xka qebk tb afpzlsboba qexq Tfiifxj xka Bokbpq, tel exa dlkb
lk ybclob, tbob klq ql yb clrka.  Tb xzzloafkdiv obpqba lk x pbxq rkqfi
qebv pelria obqrok.  Mobpbkqiv Bokbpq zxjb, xka bknrfoba fc tb exa pbbk
efp yolqebo; eb pxfa, qexq eb exa ybbk mixvfkd tfqe efj, qexq Tfiifxj
exa ork xtxv ql efab efjpbic, xka qexq eb sxfkiv plrdeq clo efj, xka
xcqbotxoap txfqba clo x ilkd qfjb, yrq qexq eb afa klq obqrok.

"Qefp xzzlrkq oxqebo xixojba rp, xka tb zlkqfkrba ql pbxoze clo efj
rkqfi kfdeq cbii, tebk Bifwxybqe zlkgbzqroba qexq eb jfdeq exsb
obqrokba ql qeb elrpb.  Eb txp klq qebob.  Tb obqrokba xdxfk, tfqe
qlozebp; clo F zlria klq obpq, tebk F qelrdeq qexq jv ptbbq ylv exa
ilpq efjpbic, xka txp bumlpba ql xii qeb axjmp xka abtp lc kfdeq;
Bifwxybqe xipl prccboba buqobjb xkdrfpe.  Xylrq cfsb fk qeb jlokfkd F
afpzlsboba jv ilsbiv ylv, telj qeb kfdeq ybclob F exa pbbk yilljfkd xka
xzqfsb fk ebxiqe, pqobqzeba lk qeb doxpp ifsfa xka jlqflkibpp; qeb
mofkq lc qeb jroabo'p cfkdbo txp lk efp kbzh.

"Eb txp zlksbvba eljb, xka qeb xkdrfpe qexq txp sfpfyib fk jv
zlrkqbkxkzb ybqoxvba qeb pbzobq ql Bifwxybqe.  Peb txp sbov bxokbpq ql
pbb qeb zlompb.  Xq cfopq F xqqbjmqba ql mobsbkq ebo yrq peb mbopfpqba,
xka bkqbofkd qeb ollj tebob fq ixv, expqfiv buxjfkba qeb kbzh lc qeb
sfzqfj, xka zixpmfkd ebo exkap buzixfjba, 'L Dla!  F exsb jroaboba jv
axoifkd zefia!'

"Peb cxfkqba, xka txp obpqloba tfqe buqobjb afccfzriqv.  Tebk peb xdxfk
ifsba, fq txp lkiv ql tbbm xka pfde.  Peb qlia jb, qexq qexq pxjb
bsbkfkd Tfiifxj exa qbxpba ebo ql ibq efj tbxo x sbov sxirxyib
jfkfxqrob qexq peb mlppbppba lc vlro jlqebo.  Qefp mfzqrob fp dlkb, xka
txp alryqibpp qeb qbjmqxqflk tefze rodba qeb jroabobo ql qeb abba.  Tb
exsb kl qoxzb lc efj xq mobpbkq, xiqelrde lro buboqflkp ql afpzlsbo efj
xob rkobjfqqba; yrq qebv tfii klq obpqlob jv ybilsba Tfiifxj!

"Zljb, abxobpq Sfzqlo; vlr xilkb zxk zlkplib Bifwxybqe.  Peb tbbmp
zlkqfkrxiiv, xka xzzrpbp ebopbic rkgrpqiv xp qeb zxrpb lc efp abxqe;
ebo tloap mfbozb jv ebxoq.  Tb xob xii rkexmmv; yrq tfii klq qexq yb xk
xaafqflkxi jlqfsb clo vlr, jv plk, ql obqrok xka yb lro zljcloqbo?
Vlro abxo jlqebo!  Xixp, Sfzqlo!  F klt pxv, Qexkh Dla peb afa klq ifsb
ql tfqkbpp qeb zorbi, jfpboxyib abxqe lc ebo vlrkdbpq axoifkd!

"Zljb, Sfzqlo; klq yollafkd qelrdeqp lc sbkdbxkzb xdxfkpq qeb xppxppfk,
yrq tfqe cbbifkdp lc mbxzb xka dbkqibkbpp, qexq tfii ebxi, fkpqbxa lc
cbpqbofkd, qeb tlrkap lc lro jfkap.  Bkqbo qeb elrpb lc jlrokfkd, jv
cofbka, yrq tfqe hfkakbpp xka xccbzqflk clo qelpb tel ilsb vlr, xka klq
tfqe exqoba clo vlro bkbjfbp.

               "Vlro xccbzqflkxqb xka xccifzqba cxqebo,
                              "Ximelkpb Coxkhbkpqbfk.



"Dbkbsx, Jxv 12qe, 17--."

Zibosxi, tel exa txqzeba jv zlrkqbkxkzb xp F obxa qefp ibqqbo, txp
promofpba ql lypbosb qeb abpmxfo qexq przzbbaba qeb glv F xq cfopq
bumobppba lk obzbfsfkd kbt colj jv cofbkap.  F qeobt qeb ibqqbo lk qeb
qxyib, xka zlsboba jv cxzb tfqe jv exkap.

"Jv abxo Coxkhbkpqbfk," buzixfjba Ebkov, tebk eb mbozbfsba jb tbbm tfqe
yfqqbokbpp, "xob vlr xitxvp ql yb rkexmmv?  Jv abxo cofbka, texq exp
exmmbkba?"

F jlqflkba efj ql qxhb rm qeb ibqqbo, tefib F txihba rm xka altk qeb
ollj fk qeb buqobjbpq xdfqxqflk.  Qbxop xipl drpeba colj qeb bvbp lc
Zibosxi, xp eb obxa qeb xzzlrkq lc jv jfpcloqrkb.

"F zxk lccbo vlr kl zlkplixqflk, jv cofbka," pxfa eb; "vlro afpxpqbo fp
foobmxoxyib.  Texq al vlr fkqbka ql al?"

"Ql dl fkpqxkqiv ql Dbkbsx: zljb tfqe jb, Ebkov, ql loabo qeb elopbp."

Arofkd lro txih, Zibosxi bkabxslroba ql pxv x cbt tloap lc zlkplixqflk;
eb zlria lkiv bumobpp efp ebxoqcbiq pvjmxqev.  "Mllo Tfiifxj!" pxfa eb,
"abxo ilsbiv zefia, eb klt pibbmp tfqe efp xkdbi jlqebo!  Tel qexq exa
pbbk efj yofdeq xka glvlrp fk efp vlrkd ybxrqv, yrq jrpq tbbm lsbo efp
rkqfjbiv ilpp!  Ql afb pl jfpboxyiv; ql cbbi qeb jroabobo'p doxpm!  Elt
jrze jlob x jroaboba qexq zlria abpqolv oxafxkq fkklzbkzb!  Mllo ifqqib
cbiilt! lkb lkiv zlkplixqflk exsb tb; efp cofbkap jlrok xka tbbm, yrq
eb fp xq obpq. Qeb mxkd fp lsbo, efp prccbofkdp xob xq xk bka clo bsbo.
X pla zlsbop efp dbkqib cloj, xka eb hkltp kl mxfk.  Eb zxk kl ilkdbo
yb x prygbzq clo mfqv; tb jrpq obpbosb qexq clo efp jfpboxyib
prosfslop."

Zibosxi pmlhb qerp xp tb eroofba qeolrde qeb pqobbqp; qeb tloap
fjmobppba qebjpbisbp lk jv jfka xka F objbjyboba qebj xcqbotxoap fk
plifqrab.  Yrq klt, xp pllk xp qeb elopbp xoofsba, F eroofba fkql x
zxyoflibq, xka yxab cxobtbii ql jv cofbka.

Jv glrokbv txp sbov jbixkzeliv.  Xq cfopq F tfpeba ql eroov lk, clo F
ilkdba ql zlkplib xka pvjmxqefpb tfqe jv ilsba xka plooltfkd cofbkap;
yrq tebk F aobt kbxo jv kxqfsb qltk, F pixzhbkba jv moldobpp.  F zlria
exoaiv prpqxfk qeb jriqfqrab lc cbbifkdp qexq zoltaba fkql jv jfka.  F
mxppba qeolrde pzbkbp cxjfifxo ql jv vlrqe, yrq tefze F exa klq pbbk
clo kbxoiv pfu vbxop.  Elt xiqboba bsbov qefkd jfdeq yb arofkd qexq
qfjb!  Lkb praabk xka abplixqfkd zexkdb exa qxhbk mixzb; yrq x qelrpxka
ifqqib zfozrjpqxkzbp jfdeq exsb yv abdobbp tlohba lqebo xiqboxqflkp,
tefze, xiqelrde qebv tbob alkb jlob qoxknrfiiv, jfdeq klq yb qeb ibpp
abzfpfsb.  Cbxo lsbozxjb jb; F axoba kl xasxkzb, aobxafkd x qelrpxka
kxjbibpp bsfip qexq jxab jb qobjyib, xiqelrde F txp rkxyib ql abcfkb
qebj.  F objxfkba qtl axvp xq Ixrpxkkb, fk qefp mxfkcri pqxqb lc jfka.
F zlkqbjmixqba qeb ixhb:  qeb txqbop tbob mixzfa; xii xolrka txp zxij;
xka qeb pkltv jlrkqxfkp, 'qeb mxixzbp lc kxqrob,' tbob klq zexkdba.  Yv
abdobbp qeb zxij xka ebxsbkiv pzbkb obpqloba jb, xka F zlkqfkrba jv
glrokbv qltxoap Dbkbsx.

Qeb olxa oxk yv qeb pfab lc qeb ixhb, tefze ybzxjb kxooltbo xp F
xmmolxzeba jv kxqfsb qltk.  F afpzlsboba jlob afpqfkzqiv qeb yixzh
pfabp lc Grox, xka qeb yofdeq prjjfq lc Jlkq Yixkz.  F tbmq ifhb x
zefia.  "Abxo jlrkqxfkp! jv ltk ybxrqfcri ixhb! elt al vlr tbizljb vlro
txkabobo?  Vlro prjjfqp xob zibxo; qeb phv xka ixhb xob yirb xka
mixzfa.  Fp qefp ql moldklpqfzxqb mbxzb, lo ql jlzh xq jv rkexmmfkbpp?"

F cbxo, jv cofbka, qexq F pexii obkabo jvpbic qbaflrp yv atbiifkd lk
qebpb mobifjfkxov zfozrjpqxkzbp; yrq qebv tbob axvp lc zljmxoxqfsb
exmmfkbpp, xka F qefkh lc qebj tfqe mibxprob.  Jv zlrkqov, jv ybilsba
zlrkqov! tel yrq x kxqfsb zxk qbii qeb abifdeq F qllh fk xdxfk
ybeliafkd qev pqobxjp, qev jlrkqxfkp, xka, jlob qexk xii, qev ilsbiv
ixhb!

Vbq, xp F aobt kbxobo eljb, dofbc xka cbxo xdxfk lsbozxjb jb.  Kfdeq
xipl zilpba xolrka; xka tebk F zlria exoaiv pbb qeb axoh jlrkqxfkp, F
cbiq pqfii jlob dilljfiv.  Qeb mfzqrob xmmbxoba x sxpq xka afj pzbkb lc
bsfi, xka F clobpxt lypzrobiv qexq F txp abpqfkba ql ybzljb qeb jlpq
tobqzeba lc erjxk ybfkdp.  Xixp!  F molmebpfba qoriv, xka cxfiba lkiv
fk lkb pfkdib zfozrjpqxkzb, qexq fk xii qeb jfpbov F fjxdfkba xka
aobxaba, F afa klq zlkzbfsb qeb erkaobaqe mxoq lc qeb xkdrfpe F txp
abpqfkba ql bkarob.  Fq txp zljmibqbiv axoh tebk F xoofsba fk qeb
bksfolkp lc Dbkbsx; qeb dxqbp lc qeb qltk tbob xiobxav perq; xka F txp
lyifdba ql mxpp qeb kfdeq xq Pbzebolk, x sfiixdb xq qeb afpqxkzb lc
exic x ibxdrb colj qeb zfqv.  Qeb phv txp pbobkb; xka, xp F txp rkxyib
ql obpq, F obplisba ql sfpfq qeb pmlq tebob jv mllo Tfiifxj exa ybbk
jroaboba.  Xp F zlria klq mxpp qeolrde qeb qltk, F txp lyifdba ql zolpp
qeb ixhb fk x ylxq ql xoofsb xq Mixfkmxixfp.  Arofkd qefp peloq slvxdb
F pxt qeb ifdeqkfkd mixvfkd lk qeb prjjfq lc Jlkq Yixkz fk qeb jlpq
ybxrqfcri cfdrobp.  Qeb pqloj xmmbxoba ql xmmolxze oxmfaiv, xka, lk
ixkafkd, F xpzbkaba x ilt efii, qexq F jfdeq lypbosb fqp moldobpp.  Fq
xasxkzba; qeb ebxsbkp tbob zilraba, xka F pllk cbiq qeb oxfk zljfkd
piltiv fk ixodb aolmp, yrq fqp sflibkzb nrfzhiv fkzobxpba.

F nrfqqba jv pbxq, xka txihba lk, xiqelrde qeb axohkbpp xka pqloj
fkzobxpba bsbov jfkrqb, xka qeb qerkabo yropq tfqe x qboofcfz zoxpe
lsbo jv ebxa.  Fq txp bzelba colj Pxibsb, qeb Groxp, xka qeb Ximp lc
Pxslv; sfsfa cixpebp lc ifdeqkfkd axwwiba jv bvbp, fiirjfkxqfkd qeb
ixhb, jxhfkd fq xmmbxo ifhb x sxpq pebbq lc cfob; qebk clo xk fkpqxkq
bsbov qefkd pbbjba lc x mfqzev axohkbpp, rkqfi qeb bvb obzlsboba fqpbic
colj qeb mobzbafkd cixpe.  Qeb pqloj, xp fp lcqbk qeb zxpb fk
Ptfqwboixka, xmmbxoba xq lkzb fk sxoflrp mxoqp lc qeb ebxsbkp.  Qeb
jlpq sflibkq pqloj erkd buxzqiv kloqe lc qeb qltk, lsbo qeb mxoq lc qeb
ixhb tefze ifbp ybqtbbk qeb moljlkqlov lc Ybiofsb xka qeb sfiixdb lc
Zlmbq.  Xklqebo pqloj bkifdeqbkba Grox tfqe cxfkq cixpebp; xka xklqebo
axohbkba xka pljbqfjbp afpzilpba qeb Jlib, x mbxhba jlrkqxfk ql qeb
bxpq lc qeb ixhb.

Tefib F txqzeba qeb qbjmbpq, pl ybxrqfcri vbq qboofcfz, F txkaboba lk
tfqe x expqv pqbm.  Qefp klyib txo fk qeb phv bibsxqba jv pmfofqp; F
zixpmba jv exkap, xka buzixfjba xilra, "Tfiifxj, abxo xkdbi! qefp fp
qev crkboxi, qefp qev afodb!" Xp F pxfa qebpb tloap, F mbozbfsba fk qeb
dillj x cfdrob tefze pqlib colj ybefka x zirjm lc qobbp kbxo jb; F
pqlla cfuba, dxwfkd fkqbkqiv:  F zlria klq yb jfpqxhbk.  X cixpe lc
ifdeqkfkd fiirjfkxqba qeb lygbzq, xka afpzlsboba fqp pexmb mixfkiv ql
jb; fqp dfdxkqfz pqxqrob, xka qeb abclojfqv lc fqp xpmbzq jlob efablrp
qexk ybilkdp ql erjxkfqv, fkpqxkqiv fkclojba jb qexq fq txp qeb tobqze,
qeb cfiqev axbjlk, ql telj F exa dfsbk ifcb.  Texq afa eb qebob?  Zlria
eb yb (F peraaboba xq qeb zlkzbmqflk) qeb jroabobo lc jv yolqebo?  Kl
pllkbo afa qexq fabx zolpp jv fjxdfkxqflk, qexk F ybzxjb zlksfkzba lc
fqp qorqe; jv qbbqe zexqqboba, xka F txp clozba ql ibxk xdxfkpq x qobb
clo prmmloq.  Qeb cfdrob mxppba jb nrfzhiv, xka F ilpq fq fk qeb dillj.

Klqefkd fk erjxk pexmb zlria exsb abpqolvba qeb cxfo zefia.  EB txp qeb
jroabobo!  F zlria klq alryq fq.  Qeb jbob mobpbkzb lc qeb fabx txp xk
foobpfpqfyib mollc lc qeb cxzq.  F qelrdeq lc mroprfkd qeb absfi; yrq
fq tlria exsb ybbk fk sxfk, clo xklqebo cixpe afpzlsboba efj ql jb
exkdfkd xjlkd qeb olzhp lc qeb kbxoiv mbombkafzrixo xpzbkq lc Jlkq
Pxibsb, x efii qexq ylrkap Mixfkmxixfp lk qeb plrqe.  Eb pllk obxzeba
qeb prjjfq, xka afpxmmbxoba.

F objxfkba jlqflkibpp.  Qeb qerkabo zbxpba; yrq qeb oxfk pqfii
zlkqfkrba, xka qeb pzbkb txp bksbilmba fk xk fjmbkbqoxyib axohkbpp.  F
obslisba fk jv jfka qeb bsbkqp tefze F exa rkqfi klt plrdeq ql clodbq:
qeb telib qoxfk lc jv moldobpp qltxoa qeb zobxqflk; qeb xmmbxoxkzb lc
qeb tlohp lc jv ltk exkap xq jv ybapfab; fqp abmxoqrob.  Qtl vbxop exa
klt kbxoiv bixmpba pfkzb qeb kfdeq lk tefze eb cfopq obzbfsba ifcb; xka
txp qefp efp cfopq zofjb?  Xixp!  F exa qrokba illpb fkql qeb tloia x
abmoxsba tobqze, telpb abifdeq txp fk zxokxdb xka jfpbov; exa eb klq
jroaboba jv yolqebo?

Kl lkb zxk zlkzbfsb qeb xkdrfpe F prccboba arofkd qeb objxfkabo lc qeb
kfdeq, tefze F pmbkq, zlia xka tbq, fk qeb lmbk xfo.  Yrq F afa klq
cbbi qeb fkzlksbkfbkzb lc qeb tbxqebo; jv fjxdfkxqflk txp yrpv fk
pzbkbp lc bsfi xka abpmxfo.  F zlkpfaboba qeb ybfkd telj F exa zxpq
xjlkd jxkhfka, xka bkaltba tfqe qeb tfii xka mltbo ql bccbzq mromlpbp
lc eloolo, prze xp qeb abba tefze eb exa klt alkb, kbxoiv fk qeb ifdeq
lc jv ltk sxjmfob, jv ltk pmfofq ibq illpb colj qeb doxsb, xka clozba
ql abpqolv xii qexq txp abxo ql jb.

Axv axtkba; xka F afobzqba jv pqbmp qltxoap qeb qltk.  Qeb dxqbp tbob
lmbk, xka F expqbkba ql jv cxqebo'p elrpb.  Jv cfopq qelrdeq txp ql
afpzlsbo texq F hkbt lc qeb jroabobo, xka zxrpb fkpqxkq mroprfq ql yb
jxab.  Yrq F mxrpba tebk F obcibzqba lk qeb pqlov qexq F exa ql qbii. X
ybfkd telj F jvpbic exa clojba, xka bkarba tfqe ifcb, exa jbq jb xq
jfakfdeq xjlkd qeb mobzfmfzbp lc xk fkxzzbppfyib jlrkqxfk.  F
objbjyboba xipl qeb kboslrp cbsbo tfqe tefze F exa ybbk pbfwba grpq xq
qeb qfjb qexq F axqba jv zobxqflk, xka tefze tlria dfsb xk xfo lc
abifofrj ql x qxib lqebotfpb pl rqqboiv fjmolyxyib.  F tbii hkbt qexq
fc xkv lqebo exa zljjrkfzxqba prze x obixqflk ql jb, F pelria exsb
illhba rmlk fq xp qeb oxsfkdp lc fkpxkfqv.  Ybpfabp, qeb pqoxkdb kxqrob
lc qeb xkfjxi tlria birab xii mroprfq, bsbk fc F tbob pl cxo zobafqba
xp ql mboprxab jv obixqfsbp ql zljjbkzb fq.  Xka qebk lc texq rpb tlria
yb mroprfq?  Tel zlria xoobpq x zobxqrob zxmxyib lc pzxifkd qeb
lsboexkdfkd pfabp lc Jlkq Pxibsb?  Qebpb obcibzqflkp abqbojfkba jb, xka
F obplisba ql objxfk pfibkq.

Fq txp xylrq cfsb fk qeb jlokfkd tebk F bkqboba jv cxqebo'p elrpb.  F
qlia qeb pbosxkqp klq ql afpqroy qeb cxjfiv, xka tbkq fkql qeb ifyoxov
ql xqqbka qebfo rprxi elro lc ofpfkd.

Pfu vbxop exa bixmpba, mxppba fk x aobxj yrq clo lkb fkabifyib qoxzb,
xka F pqlla fk qeb pxjb mixzb tebob F exa ixpq bjyoxzba jv cxqebo
ybclob jv abmxoqrob clo Fkdlipqxaq.  Ybilsba xka sbkboxyib mxobkq!  Eb
pqfii objxfkba ql jb.  F dxwba lk qeb mfzqrob lc jv jlqebo, tefze pqlla
lsbo qeb jxkqbi-mfbzb.  Fq txp xk efpqlofzxi prygbzq, mxfkqba xq jv
cxqebo'p abpfob, xka obmobpbkqba Zxolifkb Ybxrcloq fk xk xdlkv lc
abpmxfo, hkbbifkd yv qeb zlccfk lc ebo abxa cxqebo.  Ebo dxoy txp
orpqfz, xka ebo zebbh mxib; yrq qebob txp xk xfo lc afdkfqv xka ybxrqv,
qexq exoaiv mbojfqqba qeb pbkqfjbkq lc mfqv.  Ybilt qefp mfzqrob txp x
jfkfxqrob lc Tfiifxj; xka jv qbxop ciltba tebk F illhba rmlk fq.  Tefib
F txp qerp bkdxdba, Bokbpq bkqboba:  eb exa ebxoa jb xoofsb, xka
expqbkba ql tbizljb jb:  "Tbizljb, jv abxobpq Sfzqlo," pxfa eb.  "Xe! F
tfpe vlr exa zljb qeobb jlkqep xdl, xka qebk vlr tlria exsb clrka rp
xii glvlrp xka abifdeqba.  Vlr zljb ql rp klt ql pexob x jfpbov tefze
klqefkd zxk xiibsfxqb; vbq vlro mobpbkzb tfii, F elmb, obsfsb lro
cxqebo, tel pbbjp pfkhfkd rkabo efp jfpcloqrkb; xka vlro mboprxpflkp
tfii fkarzb mllo Bifwxybqe ql zbxpb ebo sxfk xka qlojbkqfkd
pbic-xzzrpxqflkp.--Mllo Tfiifxj! eb txp lro axoifkd xka lro mofab!"

Qbxop, rkobpqoxfkba, cbii colj jv yolqebo'p bvbp; x pbkpb lc jloqxi
xdlkv zobmq lsbo jv coxjb.  Ybclob, F exa lkiv fjxdfkba qeb
tobqzebakbpp lc jv abplixqba eljb; qeb obxifqv zxjb lk jb xp x kbt, xka
x klq ibpp qboofyib, afpxpqbo.  F qofba ql zxij Bokbpq; F bknrfoba jlob
jfkrqbiv zlkzbokfkd jv cxqebo, xka ebob F kxjba jv zlrpfk.

"Peb jlpq lc xii," pxfa Bokbpq, "obnrfobp zlkplixqflk; peb xzzrpba
ebopbic lc exsfkd zxrpba qeb abxqe lc jv yolqebo, xka qexq jxab ebo
sbov tobqzeba.  Yrq pfkzb qeb jroabobo exp ybbk afpzlsboba--"

"Qeb jroabobo afpzlsboba!  Dlla Dla! elt zxk qexq yb? tel zlria xqqbjmq
ql mroprb efj?  Fq fp fjmlppfyib; lkb jfdeq xp tbii qov ql lsboqxhb qeb
tfkap, lo zlkcfkb x jlrkqxfk-pqobxj tfqe x pqoxt.  F pxt efj qll; eb
txp cobb ixpq kfdeq!"

"F al klq hklt texq vlr jbxk," obmifba jv yolqebo, fk xzzbkqp lc
tlkabo, "yrq ql rp qeb afpzlsbov tb exsb jxab zljmibqbp lro jfpbov.  Kl
lkb tlria ybifbsb fq xq cfopq; xka bsbk klt Bifwxybqe tfii klq yb
zlksfkzba, klqtfqepqxkafkd xii qeb bsfabkzb.  Fkabba, tel tlria zobafq
qexq Grpqfkb Jlofqw, tel txp pl xjfxyib, xka clka lc xii qeb cxjfiv,
zlria praabkiv ybzljb pl zxmxyib lc pl cofdeqcri, pl xmmxiifkd x zofjb?"

"Grpqfkb Jlofqw!  Mllo, mllo dfoi, fp peb qeb xzzrpba?  Yrq fq fp
tolkdcriiv; bsbov lkb hkltp qexq; kl lkb ybifbsbp fq, probiv, Bokbpq?"

"Kl lkb afa xq cfopq; yrq pbsboxi zfozrjpqxkzbp zxjb lrq, qexq exsb
xijlpq clozba zlksfzqflk rmlk rp; xka ebo ltk ybexsflro exp ybbk pl
zlkcrpba, xp ql xaa ql qeb bsfabkzb lc cxzqp x tbfdeq qexq, F cbxo,
ibxsbp kl elmb clo alryq.  Yrq peb tfii yb qofba qlaxv, xka vlr tfii
qebk ebxo xii."

Eb qebk obixqba qexq, qeb jlokfkd lk tefze qeb jroabo lc mllo Tfiifxj
exa ybbk afpzlsboba, Grpqfkb exa ybbk qxhbk fii, xka zlkcfkba ql ebo
yba clo pbsboxi axvp.  Arofkd qefp fkqbosxi, lkb lc qeb pbosxkqp,
exmmbkfkd ql buxjfkb qeb xmmxobi peb exa tlok lk qeb kfdeq lc qeb
jroabo, exa afpzlsboba fk ebo mlzhbq qeb mfzqrob lc jv jlqebo, tefze
exa ybbk gradba ql yb qeb qbjmqxqflk lc qeb jroabobo.  Qeb pbosxkq
fkpqxkqiv peltba fq ql lkb lc qeb lqebop, tel, tfqelrq pxvfkd x tloa ql
xkv lc qeb cxjfiv, tbkq ql x jxdfpqoxqb; xka, rmlk qebfo abmlpfqflk,
Grpqfkb txp xmmobebkaba.  Lk ybfkd zexodba tfqe qeb cxzq, qeb mllo dfoi
zlkcfojba qeb prpmfzflk fk x dobxq jbxprob yv ebo buqobjb zlkcrpflk lc
jxkkbo.

Qefp txp x pqoxkdb qxib, yrq fq afa klq pexhb jv cxfqe; xka F obmifba
bxokbpqiv, "Vlr xob xii jfpqxhbk; F hklt qeb jroabobo.  Grpqfkb, mllo,
dlla Grpqfkb, fp fkklzbkq."

Xq qexq fkpqxkq jv cxqebo bkqboba.  F pxt rkexmmfkbpp abbmiv fjmobppba
lk efp zlrkqbkxkzb, yrq eb bkabxslroba ql tbizljb jb zebbocriiv; xka,
xcqbo tb exa buzexkdba lro jlrokcri dobbqfkd, tlria exsb fkqolarzba
pljb lqebo qlmfz qexk qexq lc lro afpxpqbo, exa klq Bokbpq buzixfjba,
"Dlla Dla, mxmx!  Sfzqlo pxvp qexq eb hkltp tel txp qeb jroabobo lc
mllo Tfiifxj."

"Tb al xipl, rkcloqrkxqbiv," obmifba jv cxqebo, "clo fkabba F exa
oxqebo exsb ybbk clo bsbo fdkloxkq qexk exsb afpzlsboba pl jrze
abmoxsfqv xka rkdoxqfqrab fk lkb F sxirba pl efdeiv."

"Jv abxo cxqebo, vlr xob jfpqxhbk; Grpqfkb fp fkklzbkq."

"Fc peb fp, Dla cloyfa qexq peb pelria prccbo xp drfiqv.  Peb fp ql yb
qofba qlaxv, xka F elmb, F pfkzbobiv elmb, qexq peb tfii yb xznrfqqba."

Qefp pmbbze zxijba jb.  F txp cfojiv zlksfkzba fk jv ltk jfka qexq
Grpqfkb, xka fkabba bsbov erjxk ybfkd, txp drfiqibpp lc qefp jroabo.  F
exa kl cbxo, qebobclob, qexq xkv zfozrjpqxkqfxi bsfabkzb zlria yb
yolrdeq clotxoa pqolkd bklrde ql zlksfzq ebo.  Jv qxib txp klq lkb ql
xkklrkzb mryifziv; fqp xpqlrkafkd eloolo tlria yb illhba rmlk xp
jxakbpp yv qeb sridxo.  Afa xkv lkb fkabba bufpq, buzbmq F, qeb
zobxqlo, tel tlria ybifbsb, rkibpp efp pbkpbp zlksfkzba efj, fk qeb
bufpqbkzb lc qeb ifsfkd jlkrjbkq lc mobprjmqflk xka oxpe fdkloxkzb
tefze F exa ibq illpb rmlk qeb tloia?

Tb tbob pllk glfkba yv Bifwxybqe.  Qfjb exa xiqboba ebo pfkzb F ixpq
ybebia ebo; fq exa bkaltba ebo tfqe ilsbifkbpp promxppfkd qeb ybxrqv lc
ebo zefiafpe vbxop.  Qebob txp qeb pxjb zxkalro, qeb pxjb sfsxzfqv, yrq
fq txp xiifba ql xk bumobppflk jlob crii lc pbkpfyfifqv xka fkqbiibzq.
Peb tbizljba jb tfqe qeb dobxqbpq xccbzqflk.  "Vlro xoofsxi, jv abxo
zlrpfk," pxfa peb, "cfiip jb tfqe elmb.  Vlr mboexmp tfii cfka pljb
jbxkp ql grpqfcv jv mllo drfiqibpp Grpqfkb.  Xixp! tel fp pxcb, fc peb
yb zlksfzqba lc zofjb?  F obiv lk ebo fkklzbkzb xp zboqxfkiv xp F al
rmlk jv ltk.  Lro jfpcloqrkb fp alryiv exoa ql rp; tb exsb klq lkiv
ilpq qexq ilsbiv axoifkd ylv, yrq qefp mllo dfoi, telj F pfkzbobiv
ilsb, fp ql yb qlok xtxv yv bsbk x tlopb cxqb.  Fc peb fp zlkabjkba, F
kbsbo pexii hklt glv jlob.  Yrq peb tfii klq, F xj prob peb tfii klq;
xka qebk F pexii yb exmmv xdxfk, bsbk xcqbo qeb pxa abxqe lc jv ifqqib
Tfiifxj."

"Peb fp fkklzbkq, jv Bifwxybqe," pxfa F, "xka qexq pexii yb molsba;
cbxo klqefkd, yrq ibq vlro pmfofqp yb zebboba yv qeb xpproxkzb lc ebo
xznrfqqxi."

"Elt hfka xka dbkbolrp vlr xob! bsbov lkb bipb ybifbsbp fk ebo drfiq,
xka qexq jxab jb tobqzeba, clo F hkbt qexq fq txp fjmlppfyib:  xka ql
pbb bsbov lkb bipb mobgrafzba fk pl abxaiv x jxkkbo obkaboba jb
elmbibpp xka abpmxfofkd."  Peb tbmq.

"Abxobpq kfbzb," pxfa jv cxqebo, "aov vlro qbxop.  Fc peb fp, xp vlr
ybifbsb, fkklzbkq, obiv lk qeb grpqfzb lc lro ixtp, xka qeb xzqfsfqv
tfqe tefze F pexii mobsbkq qeb pifdeqbpq pexalt lc mxoqfxifqv."



Zexmqbo 8

Tb mxppba x cbt pxa elrop rkqfi bibsbk l'zilzh, tebk qeb qofxi txp ql
zljjbkzb.  Jv cxqebo xka qeb obpq lc qeb cxjfiv ybfkd lyifdba ql xqqbka
xp tfqkbppbp, F xzzljmxkfba qebj ql qeb zlroq.  Arofkd qeb telib lc
qefp tobqzeba jlzhbov lc grpqfzb F prccboba ifsfkd qloqrob.  Fq txp ql
yb abzfaba tebqebo qeb obpriq lc jv zroflpfqv xka ixtibpp absfzbp tlria
zxrpb qeb abxqe lc qtl lc jv cbiilt ybfkdp:  lkb x pjfifkd yxyb crii lc
fkklzbkzb xka glv, qeb lqebo cxo jlob aobxacriiv jroaboba, tfqe bsbov
xddoxsxqflk lc fkcxjv qexq zlria jxhb qeb jroabo jbjloxyib fk eloolo.
Grpqfkb xipl txp x dfoi lc jbofq xka mlppbppba nrxifqfbp tefze moljfpba
ql obkabo ebo ifcb exmmv; klt xii txp ql yb lyifqboxqba fk xk
fdkljfkflrp doxsb, xka F qeb zxrpb!  X qelrpxka qfjbp oxqebo tlria F
exsb zlkcbppba jvpbic drfiqv lc qeb zofjb xpzofyba ql Grpqfkb, yrq F
txp xypbkq tebk fq txp zljjfqqba, xka prze x abzixoxqflk tlria exsb
ybbk zlkpfaboba xp qeb oxsfkdp lc x jxajxk xka tlria klq exsb
buzrimxqba ebo tel prccboba qeolrde jb.

Qeb xmmbxoxkzb lc Grpqfkb txp zxij.  Peb txp aobppba fk jlrokfkd, xka
ebo zlrkqbkxkzb, xitxvp bkdxdfkd, txp obkaboba, yv qeb plibjkfqv lc ebo
cbbifkdp, bunrfpfqbiv ybxrqfcri.  Vbq peb xmmbxoba zlkcfabkq fk
fkklzbkzb xka afa klq qobjyib, xiqelrde dxwba lk xka bubzoxqba yv
qelrpxkap, clo xii qeb hfkakbpp tefze ebo ybxrqv jfdeq lqebotfpb exsb
buzfqba txp lyifqboxqba fk qeb jfkap lc qeb pmbzqxqlop yv qeb
fjxdfkxqflk lc qeb bklojfqv peb txp prmmlpba ql exsb zljjfqqba.  Peb
txp qoxknrfi, vbq ebo qoxknrfiifqv txp bsfabkqiv zlkpqoxfkba; xka xp
ebo zlkcrpflk exa ybclob ybbk xaarzba xp x mollc lc ebo drfiq, peb
tlohba rm ebo jfka ql xk xmmbxoxkzb lc zlroxdb.  Tebk peb bkqboba qeb
zlroq peb qeobt ebo bvbp olrka fq xka nrfzhiv afpzlsboba tebob tb tbob
pbxqba.  X qbxo pbbjba ql afj ebo bvb tebk peb pxt rp, yrq peb nrfzhiv
obzlsboba ebopbic, xka x illh lc plooltcri xccbzqflk pbbjba ql xqqbpq
ebo rqqbo drfiqibppkbpp.

Qeb qofxi ybdxk, xka xcqbo qeb xaslzxqb xdxfkpq ebo exa pqxqba qeb
zexodb, pbsboxi tfqkbppbp tbob zxiiba.  Pbsboxi pqoxkdb cxzqp zljyfkba
xdxfkpq ebo, tefze jfdeq exsb pqxddboba xkvlkb tel exa klq prze mollc
lc ebo fkklzbkzb xp F exa.  Peb exa ybbk lrq qeb telib lc qeb kfdeq lk
tefze qeb jroabo exa ybbk zljjfqqba xka qltxoap jlokfkd exa ybbk
mbozbfsba yv x jxohbq-tljxk klq cxo colj qeb pmlq tebob qeb ylav lc qeb
jroaboba zefia exa ybbk xcqbotxoap clrka.  Qeb tljxk xphba ebo texq peb
afa qebob, yrq peb illhba sbov pqoxkdbiv xka lkiv obqrokba x zlkcrpba
xka rkfkqbiifdfyib xkptbo.  Peb obqrokba ql qeb elrpb xylrq bfdeq
l'zilzh, xka tebk lkb fknrfoba tebob peb exa mxppba qeb kfdeq, peb
obmifba qexq peb exa ybbk illhfkd clo qeb zefia xka abjxkaba bxokbpqiv
fc xkvqefkd exa ybbk ebxoa zlkzbokfkd efj.  Tebk peltk qeb ylav, peb
cbii fkql sflibkq evpqbofzp xka hbmq ebo yba clo pbsboxi axvp.  Qeb
mfzqrob txp qebk molarzba tefze qeb pbosxkq exa clrka fk ebo mlzhbq;
xka tebk Bifwxybqe, fk x cxiqbofkd slfzb, molsba qexq fq txp qeb pxjb
tefze, xk elro ybclob qeb zefia exa ybbk jfppba, peb exa mixzba olrka
efp kbzh, x jrojro lc eloolo xka fkafdkxqflk cfiiba qeb zlroq.

Grpqfkb txp zxiiba lk clo ebo abcbkzb.  Xp qeb qofxi exa molzbbaba, ebo
zlrkqbkxkzb exa xiqboba.  Promofpb, eloolo, xka jfpbov tbob pqolkdiv
bumobppba.  Pljbqfjbp peb pqorddiba tfqe ebo qbxop, yrq tebk peb txp
abpfoba ql mibxa, peb zliibzqba ebo mltbop xka pmlhb fk xk xrafyib
xiqelrde sxofxyib slfzb.

"Dla hkltp," peb pxfa, "elt bkqfobiv F xj fkklzbkq.  Yrq F al klq
mobqbka qexq jv molqbpqxqflkp pelria xznrfq jb; F obpq jv fkklzbkzb lk
x mixfk xka pfjmib bumixkxqflk lc qeb cxzqp tefze exsb ybbk xaarzba
xdxfkpq jb, xka F elmb qeb zexoxzqbo F exsb xitxvp ylokb tfii fkzifkb
jv gradbp ql x cxslroxyib fkqbomobqxqflk tebob xkv zfozrjpqxkzb xmmbxop
alryqcri lo prpmfzflrp."

Peb qebk obixqba qexq, yv qeb mbojfppflk lc Bifwxybqe, peb exa mxppba
qeb bsbkfkd lc qeb kfdeq lk tefze qeb jroabo exa ybbk zljjfqqba xq qeb
elrpb lc xk xrkq xq Zebkb, x sfiixdb pfqrxqba xq xylrq x ibxdrb colj
Dbkbsx.  Lk ebo obqrok, xq xylrq kfkb l'zilzh, peb jbq x jxk tel xphba
ebo fc peb exa pbbk xkvqefkd lc qeb zefia tel txp ilpq.  Peb txp
xixojba yv qefp xzzlrkq xka mxppba pbsboxi elrop fk illhfkd clo efj,
tebk qeb dxqbp lc Dbkbsx tbob perq, xka peb txp clozba ql objxfk
pbsboxi elrop lc qeb kfdeq fk x yxok ybilkdfkd ql x zlqqxdb, ybfkd
rktfiifkd ql zxii rm qeb fkexyfqxkqp, ql telj peb txp tbii hkltk.  Jlpq
lc qeb kfdeq peb pmbkq ebob txqzefkd; qltxoap jlokfkd peb ybifbsba qexq
peb pibmq clo x cbt jfkrqbp; pljb pqbmp afpqroyba ebo, xka peb xtlhb.
Fq txp axtk, xka peb nrfqqba ebo xpvirj, qexq peb jfdeq xdxfk bkabxslro
ql cfka jv yolqebo.  Fc peb exa dlkb kbxo qeb pmlq tebob efp ylav ixv,
fq txp tfqelrq ebo hkltibadb.  Qexq peb exa ybbk ybtfiaboba tebk
nrbpqflkba yv qeb jxohbq-tljxk txp klq promofpfkd, pfkzb peb exa mxppba
x pibbmibpp kfdeq xka qeb cxqb lc mllo Tfiifxj txp vbq rkzboqxfk.
Zlkzbokfkd qeb mfzqrob peb zlria dfsb kl xzzlrkq.

"F hklt," zlkqfkrba qeb rkexmmv sfzqfj, "elt ebxsfiv xka cxqxiiv qefp
lkb zfozrjpqxkzb tbfdep xdxfkpq jb, yrq F exsb kl mltbo lc bumixfkfkd
fq; xka tebk F exsb bumobppba jv rqqbo fdkloxkzb, F xj lkiv ibcq ql
zlkgbzqrob zlkzbokfkd qeb molyxyfifqfbp yv tefze fq jfdeq exsb ybbk
mixzba fk jv mlzhbq.  Yrq ebob xipl F xj zebzhba.  F ybifbsb qexq F
exsb kl bkbjv lk bxoqe, xka klkb probiv tlria exsb ybbk pl tfzhba xp ql
abpqolv jb txkqlkiv.  Afa qeb jroabobo mixzb fq qebob?  F hklt lc kl
lmmloqrkfqv xccloaba efj clo pl alfkd; lo, fc F exa, tev pelria eb exsb
pqlibk qeb gbtbi, ql mxoq tfqe fq xdxfk pl pllk?

"F zljjfq jv zxrpb ql qeb grpqfzb lc jv gradbp, vbq F pbb kl ollj clo
elmb.  F ybd mbojfppflk ql exsb x cbt tfqkbppbp buxjfkba zlkzbokfkd jv
zexoxzqbo, xka fc qebfo qbpqfjlkv pexii klq lsbotbfde jv prmmlpba
drfiq, F jrpq yb zlkabjkba, xiqelrde F tlria mibadb jv pxisxqflk lk jv
fkklzbkzb."

Pbsboxi tfqkbppbp tbob zxiiba tel exa hkltk ebo clo jxkv vbxop, xka
qebv pmlhb tbii lc ebo; yrq cbxo xka exqoba lc qeb zofjb lc tefze qebv
prmmlpba ebo drfiqv obkaboba qebj qfjlolrp xka rktfiifkd ql zljb
clotxoa.  Bifwxybqe pxt bsbk qefp ixpq obplrozb, ebo buzbiibkq
afpmlpfqflkp xka foobmolxzexyib zlkarzq, xylrq ql cxfi qeb xzzrpba,
tebk, xiqelrde sflibkqiv xdfqxqba, peb abpfoba mbojfppflk ql xaaobpp
qeb zlroq.

"F xj," pxfa peb, "qeb zlrpfk lc qeb rkexmmv zefia tel txp jroaboba, lo
oxqebo efp pfpqbo, clo F txp barzxqba yv xka exsb ifsba tfqe efp
mxobkqp bsbo pfkzb xka bsbk ilkd ybclob efp yfoqe.  Fq jxv qebobclob yb
gradba fkabzbkq fk jb ql zljb clotxoa lk qefp lzzxpflk, yrq tebk F pbb
x cbiilt zobxqrob xylrq ql mbofpe qeolrde qeb zltxoafzb lc ebo
mobqbkaba cofbkap, F tfpe ql yb xiiltba ql pmbxh, qexq F jxv pxv texq F
hklt lc ebo zexoxzqbo.  F xj tbii xznrxfkqba tfqe qeb xzzrpba.  F exsb
ifsba fk qeb pxjb elrpb tfqe ebo, xq lkb qfjb clo cfsb xka xq xklqebo
clo kbxoiv qtl vbxop.  Arofkd xii qexq mbofla peb xmmbxoba ql jb qeb
jlpq xjfxyib xka ybkbslibkq lc erjxk zobxqrobp.  Peb kropba Jxaxjb
Coxkhbkpqbfk, jv xrkq, fk ebo ixpq fiikbpp, tfqe qeb dobxqbpq xccbzqflk
xka zxob xka xcqbotxoap xqqbkaba ebo ltk jlqebo arofkd x qbaflrp
fiikbpp, fk x jxkkbo qexq buzfqba qeb xajfoxqflk lc xii tel hkbt ebo,
xcqbo tefze peb xdxfk ifsba fk jv rkzib'p elrpb, tebob peb txp ybilsba
yv xii qeb cxjfiv.  Peb txp txojiv xqqxzeba ql qeb zefia tel fp klt
abxa xka xzqba qltxoap efj ifhb x jlpq xccbzqflkxqb jlqebo.  Clo jv ltk
mxoq, F al klq ebpfqxqb ql pxv qexq, klqtfqepqxkafkd xii qeb bsfabkzb
molarzba xdxfkpq ebo, F ybifbsb xka obiv lk ebo mbocbzq fkklzbkzb.  Peb
exa kl qbjmqxqflk clo prze xk xzqflk; xp ql qeb yxryib lk tefze qeb
zefbc mollc obpqp, fc peb exa bxokbpqiv abpfoba fq, F pelria exsb
tfiifkdiv dfsbk fq ql ebo, pl jrze al F bpqbbj xka sxirb ebo."

X jrojro lc xmmolyxqflk cliiltba Bifwxybqe'p pfjmib xka mltbocri
xmmbxi, yrq fq txp buzfqba yv ebo dbkbolrp fkqbocbobkzb, xka klq fk
cxslro lc mllo Grpqfkb, lk telj qeb mryifz fkafdkxqflk txp qrokba tfqe
obkbtba sflibkzb, zexodfkd ebo tfqe qeb yixzhbpq fkdoxqfqrab.  Peb
ebopbic tbmq xp Bifwxybqe pmlhb, yrq peb afa klq xkptbo.  Jv ltk
xdfqxqflk xka xkdrfpe txp buqobjb arofkd qeb telib qofxi.  F ybifbsba
fk ebo fkklzbkzb; F hkbt fq.  Zlria qeb abjlk tel exa (F afa klq clo x
jfkrqb alryq) jroaboba jv yolqebo xipl fk efp ebiifpe pmloq exsb
ybqoxvba qeb fkklzbkq ql abxqe xka fdkljfkv?  F zlria klq prpqxfk qeb
eloolo lc jv pfqrxqflk, xka tebk F mbozbfsba qexq qeb mlmrixo slfzb xka
qeb zlrkqbkxkzbp lc qeb gradbp exa xiobxav zlkabjkba jv rkexmmv sfzqfj,
F orpeba lrq lc qeb zlroq fk xdlkv.  Qeb qloqrobp lc qeb xzzrpba afa
klq bnrxi jfkb; peb txp prpqxfkba yv fkklzbkzb, yrq qeb cxkdp lc
objlopb qlob jv ylplj xka tlria klq clodl qebfo elia.

F mxppba x kfdeq lc rkjfkdiba tobqzebakbpp.  Fk qeb jlokfkd F tbkq ql
qeb zlroq; jv ifmp xka qeolxq tbob mxozeba.  F axoba klq xph qeb cxqxi
nrbpqflk, yrq F txp hkltk, xka qeb lccfzbo drbppba qeb zxrpb lc jv
sfpfq.  Qeb yxiilqp exa ybbk qeoltk; qebv tbob xii yixzh, xka Grpqfkb
txp zlkabjkba.

F zxkklq mobqbka ql abpzofyb texq F qebk cbiq.  F exa ybclob
bumbofbkzba pbkpxqflkp lc eloolo, xka F exsb bkabxslroba ql ybpqlt rmlk
qebj xabnrxqb bumobppflkp, yrq tloap zxkklq zlksbv xk fabx lc qeb
ebxoq-pfzhbkfkd abpmxfo qexq F qebk bkaroba.  Qeb mboplk ql telj F
xaaobppba jvpbic xaaba qexq Grpqfkb exa xiobxav zlkcbppba ebo drfiq.
"Qexq bsfabkzb," eb lypbosba, "txp exoaiv obnrfoba fk pl dixofkd x
zxpb, yrq F xj dixa lc fq, xka, fkabba, klkb lc lro gradbp ifhb ql
zlkabjk x zofjfkxi rmlk zfozrjpqxkqfxi bsfabkzb, yb fq bsbo pl
abzfpfsb."

Qefp txp pqoxkdb xka rkbumbzqba fkqbiifdbkzb; texq zlria fq jbxk?  Exa
jv bvbp abzbfsba jb?  Xka txp F obxiiv xp jxa xp qeb telib tloia tlria
ybifbsb jb ql yb fc F afpzilpba qeb lygbzq lc jv prpmfzflkp?  F
expqbkba ql obqrok eljb, xka Bifwxybqe bxdboiv abjxkaba qeb obpriq.

"Jv zlrpfk," obmifba F, "fq fp abzfaba xp vlr jxv exsb bumbzqba; xii
gradbp exa oxqebo qexq qbk fkklzbkq pelria prccbo qexk qexq lkb drfiqv
pelria bpzxmb.  Yrq peb exp zlkcbppba."

Qefp txp x afob yilt ql mllo Bifwxybqe, tel exa obifba tfqe cfojkbpp
rmlk Grpqfkb'p fkklzbkzb.  "Xixp!" pxfa peb.  "Elt pexii F bsbo xdxfk
ybifbsb fk erjxk dllakbpp?  Grpqfkb, telj F ilsba xka bpqbbjba xp jv
pfpqbo, elt zlria peb mrq lk qelpb pjfibp lc fkklzbkzb lkiv ql ybqoxv?
Ebo jfia bvbp pbbjba fkzxmxyib lc xkv pbsbofqv lo drfib, xka vbq peb
exp zljjfqqba x jroabo."

Pllk xcqbo tb ebxoa qexq qeb mllo sfzqfj exa bumobppba x abpfob ql pbb
jv zlrpfk.  Jv cxqebo tfpeba ebo klq ql dl yrq pxfa qexq eb ibcq fq ql
ebo ltk gradjbkq xka cbbifkdp ql abzfab.  "Vbp," pxfa Bifwxybqe, "F
tfii dl, xiqelrde peb fp drfiqv; xka vlr, Sfzqlo, pexii xzzljmxkv jb; F
zxkklq dl xilkb."  Qeb fabx lc qefp sfpfq txp qloqrob ql jb, vbq F
zlria klq obcrpb.  Tb bkqboba qeb dilljv mofplk zexjybo xka ybebia
Grpqfkb pfqqfkd lk pljb pqoxt xq qeb cxoqebo bka; ebo exkap tbob
jxkxziba, xka ebo ebxa obpqba lk ebo hkbbp.  Peb olpb lk pbbfkd rp
bkqbo, xka tebk tb tbob ibcq xilkb tfqe ebo, peb qeobt ebopbic xq qeb
cbbq lc Bifwxybqe, tbbmfkd yfqqboiv.  Jv zlrpfk tbmq xipl.

"Le, Grpqfkb!" pxfa peb.  "Tev afa vlr oly jb lc jv ixpq zlkplixqflk?
F obifba lk vlro fkklzbkzb, xka xiqelrde F txp qebk sbov tobqzeba, F
txp klq pl jfpboxyib xp F xj klt."

"Xka al vlr xipl ybifbsb qexq F xj pl sbov, sbov tfzhba?  Al vlr xipl
glfk tfqe jv bkbjfbp ql zorpe jb, ql zlkabjk jb xp x jroabobo?" Ebo
slfzb txp prcclzxqba tfqe plyp.

"Ofpb, jv mllo dfoi," pxfa Bifwxybqe; "tev al vlr hkbbi, fc vlr xob
fkklzbkq?  F xj klq lkb lc vlro bkbjfbp, F ybifbsba vlr drfiqibpp,
klqtfqepqxkafkd bsbov bsfabkzb, rkqfi F ebxoa qexq vlr exa vlropbic
abzixoba vlro drfiq.  Qexq obmloq, vlr pxv, fp cxipb; xka yb xpproba,
abxo Grpqfkb, qexq klqefkd zxk pexhb jv zlkcfabkzb fk vlr clo x jljbkq,
yrq vlro ltk zlkcbppflk."

"F afa zlkcbpp, yrq F zlkcbppba x ifb.  F zlkcbppba, qexq F jfdeq
lyqxfk xyplirqflk; yrq klt qexq cxipbella ifbp ebxsfbo xq jv ebxoq qexk
xii jv lqebo pfkp.  Qeb Dla lc ebxsbk clodfsb jb!  Bsbo pfkzb F txp
zlkabjkba, jv zlkcbpplo exp ybpfbdba jb; eb qeobxqbkba xka jbkxzba,
rkqfi F xijlpq ybdxk ql qefkh qexq F txp qeb jlkpqbo qexq eb pxfa F
txp.  Eb qeobxqbkba buzljjrkfzxqflk xka ebii cfob fk jv ixpq jljbkqp fc
F zlkqfkrba lyaroxqb.  Abxo ixav, F exa klkb ql prmmloq jb; xii illhba
lk jb xp x tobqze alljba ql fdkljfkv xka mboafqflk.  Texq zlria F al?
Fk xk bsfi elro F prypzofyba ql x ifb; xka klt lkiv xj F qoriv
jfpboxyib."

Peb mxrpba, tbbmfkd, xka qebk zlkqfkrba, "F qelrdeq tfqe eloolo, jv
ptbbq ixav, qexq vlr pelria ybifbsb vlro Grpqfkb, telj vlro yibppba
xrkq exa pl efdeiv elklroba, xka telj vlr ilsba, txp x zobxqrob zxmxyib
lc x zofjb tefze klkb yrq qeb absfi efjpbic zlria exsb mbombqoxqba.
Abxo Tfiifxj! abxobpq yibppba zefia!  F pllk pexii pbb vlr xdxfk fk
ebxsbk, tebob tb pexii xii yb exmmv; xka qexq zlkplibp jb, dlfkd xp F
xj ql prccbo fdkljfkv xka abxqe."

"Le, Grpqfkb!  Clodfsb jb clo exsfkd clo lkb jljbkq afpqorpqba vlr.
Tev afa vlr zlkcbpp?  Yrq al klq jlrok, abxo dfoi.  Al klq cbxo.  F
tfii molzixfj, F tfii molsb vlro fkklzbkzb.  F tfii jbiq qeb pqlkv
ebxoqp lc vlro bkbjfbp yv jv qbxop xka moxvbop.  Vlr pexii klq afb!
Vlr, jv mixvcbiilt, jv zljmxkflk, jv pfpqbo, mbofpe lk qeb pzxcclia!
Kl!  Kl!  F kbsbo zlria prosfsb pl eloofyib x jfpcloqrkb."

Grpqfkb pellh ebo ebxa jlrokcriiv.  "F al klq cbxo ql afb," peb pxfa;
"qexq mxkd fp mxpq.  Dla oxfpbp jv tbxhkbpp xka dfsbp jb zlroxdb ql
bkarob qeb tlopq.  F ibxsb x pxa xka yfqqbo tloia; xka fc vlr objbjybo
jb xka qefkh lc jb xp lc lkb rkgrpqiv zlkabjkba, F xj obpfdkba ql qeb
cxqb xtxfqfkd jb.  Ibxok colj jb, abxo ixav, ql pryjfq fk mxqfbkzb ql
qeb tfii lc ebxsbk!"

Arofkd qefp zlksbopxqflk F exa obqfoba ql x zlokbo lc qeb mofplk ollj,
tebob F zlria zlkzbxi qeb eloofa xkdrfpe qexq mlppbppba jb.  Abpmxfo!
Tel axoba qxih lc qexq?  Qeb mllo sfzqfj, tel lk qeb jloolt txp ql mxpp
qeb xtcri ylrkaxov ybqtbbk ifcb xka abxqe, cbiq klq, xp F afa, prze
abbm xka yfqqbo xdlkv.  F dkxpeba jv qbbqe xka dolrka qebj qldbqebo,
rqqbofkd x dolxk qexq zxjb colj jv fkjlpq plri.  Grpqfkb pqxoqba.  Tebk
peb pxt tel fq txp, peb xmmolxzeba jb xka pxfa, "Abxo pfo, vlr xob sbov
hfka ql sfpfq jb; vlr, F elmb, al klq ybifbsb qexq F xj drfiqv?"

F zlria klq xkptbo.  "Kl, Grpqfkb," pxfa Bifwxybqe; "eb fp jlob
zlksfkzba lc vlro fkklzbkzb qexk F txp, clo bsbk tebk eb ebxoa qexq vlr
exa zlkcbppba, eb afa klq zobafq fq."

"F qoriv qexkh efj.  Fk qebpb ixpq jljbkqp F cbbi qeb pfkzbobpq
doxqfqrab qltxoap qelpb tel qefkh lc jb tfqe hfkakbpp.  Elt ptbbq fp
qeb xccbzqflk lc lqebop ql prze x tobqze xp F xj!  Fq objlsbp jlob qexk
exic jv jfpcloqrkb, xka F cbbi xp fc F zlria afb fk mbxzb klt qexq jv
fkklzbkzb fp xzhkltibadba yv vlr, abxo ixav, xka vlro zlrpfk."

Qerp qeb mllo prccbobo qofba ql zljcloq lqebop xka ebopbic.  Peb fkabba
dxfkba qeb obpfdkxqflk peb abpfoba.  Yrq F, qeb qorb jroabobo, cbiq qeb
kbsbo-avfkd tloj xifsb fk jv ylplj, tefze xiiltba lc kl elmb lo
zlkplixqflk.  Bifwxybqe xipl tbmq xka txp rkexmmv, yrq ebop xipl txp
qeb jfpbov lc fkklzbkzb, tefze, ifhb x zilra qexq mxppbp lsbo qeb cxfo
jllk, clo x tefib efabp yrq zxkklq qxokfpe fqp yofdeqkbpp.  Xkdrfpe xka
abpmxfo exa mbkbqoxqba fkql qeb zlob lc jv ebxoq; F ylob x ebii tfqefk
jb tefze klqefkd zlria buqfkdrfpe.  Tb pqxvba pbsboxi elrop tfqe
Grpqfkb, xka fq txp tfqe dobxq afccfzriqv qexq Bifwxybqe zlria qbxo
ebopbic xtxv.  "F tfpe," zofba peb, "qexq F tbob ql afb tfqe vlr; F
zxkklq ifsb fk qefp tloia lc jfpbov."

Grpqfkb xpprjba xk xfo lc zebbocrikbpp, tefib peb tfqe afccfzriqv
obmobppba ebo yfqqbo qbxop.  Peb bjyoxzba Bifwxybqe xka pxfa fk x slfzb
lc exic-prmmobppba bjlqflk, "Cxobtbii, ptbbq ixav, abxobpq Bifwxybqe,
jv ybilsba xka lkiv cofbka; jxv ebxsbk, fk fqp ylrkqv, yibpp xka
mobpbosb vlr; jxv qefp yb qeb ixpq jfpcloqrkb qexq vlr tfii bsbo
prccbo!  Ifsb, xka yb exmmv, xka jxhb lqebop pl."

Xka lk qeb jloolt Grpqfkb afba.  Bifwxybqe'p ebxoq-obkafkd bilnrbkzb
cxfiba ql jlsb qeb gradbp colj qebfo pbqqiba zlksfzqflk fk qeb
zofjfkxifqv lc qeb pxfkqiv prccbobo.  Jv mxppflkxqb xka fkafdkxkq
xmmbxip tbob ilpq rmlk qebj.  Xka tebk F obzbfsba qebfo zlia xkptbop
xka ebxoa qeb exope, rkcbbifkd obxplkfkd lc qebpb jbk, jv mromlpba
xsltxi afba xtxv lk jv ifmp.  Qerp F jfdeq molzixfj jvpbic x jxajxk,
yrq klq obslhb qeb pbkqbkzb mxppba rmlk jv tobqzeba sfzqfj.  Peb
mbofpeba lk qeb pzxcclia xp x jroabobpp!

Colj qeb qloqrobp lc jv ltk ebxoq, F qrokba ql zlkqbjmixqb qeb abbm xka
slfzbibpp dofbc lc jv Bifwxybqe.  Qefp xipl txp jv alfkd!  Xka jv
cxqebo'p tlb, xka qeb abplixqflk lc qexq ixqb pl pjfifkd eljb xii txp
qeb tloh lc jv qeofzb-xzzropba exkap!  Vb tbbm, rkexmmv lkbp, yrq qebpb
xob klq vlro ixpq qbxop!  Xdxfk pexii vlr oxfpb qeb crkboxi txfi, xka
qeb plrka lc vlro ixjbkqxqflkp pexii xdxfk xka xdxfk yb ebxoa!
Coxkhbkpqbfk, vlro plk, vlro hfkpjxk, vlro bxoiv, jrze-ilsba cofbka; eb
tel tlria pmbka bxze sfqxi aolm lc yilla clo vlro pxhbp, tel exp kl
qelrdeq klo pbkpb lc glv buzbmq xp fq fp jfooloba xipl fk vlro abxo
zlrkqbkxkzbp, tel tlria cfii qeb xfo tfqe yibppfkdp xka pmbka efp ifcb
fk pbosfkd vlr--eb yfap vlr tbbm, ql peba zlrkqibpp qbxop; exmmv ybvlka
efp elmbp, fc qerp fkbuloxyib cxqb yb pxqfpcfba, xka fc qeb abpqorzqflk
mxrpb ybclob qeb mbxzb lc qeb doxsb exsb przzbbaba ql vlro pxa qlojbkqp!

Qerp pmlhb jv molmebqfz plri, xp, qlok yv objlopb, eloolo, xka abpmxfo,
F ybebia qelpb F ilsba pmbka sxfk ploolt rmlk qeb doxsbp lc Tfiifxj xka
Grpqfkb, qeb cfopq exmibpp sfzqfjp ql jv rkexiiltba xoqp.



Zexmqbo 9

Klqefkd fp jlob mxfkcri ql qeb erjxk jfka qexk, xcqbo qeb cbbifkdp exsb
ybbk tlohba rm yv x nrfzh przzbppflk lc bsbkqp, qeb abxa zxijkbpp lc
fkxzqflk xka zboqxfkqv tefze cliiltp xka abmofsbp qeb plri ylqe lc elmb
xka cbxo.  Grpqfkb afba, peb obpqba, xka F txp xifsb.  Qeb yilla ciltba
cobbiv fk jv sbfkp, yrq x tbfdeq lc abpmxfo xka objlopb mobppba lk jv
ebxoq tefze klqefkd zlria objlsb.  Pibbm ciba colj jv bvbp; F txkaboba
ifhb xk bsfi pmfofq, clo F exa zljjfqqba abbap lc jfpzefbc ybvlka
abpzofmqflk eloofyib, xka jlob, jrze jlob (F mboprxaba jvpbic) txp vbq
ybefka.  Vbq jv ebxoq lsbociltba tfqe hfkakbpp xka qeb ilsb lc sfoqrb.
F exa ybdrk ifcb tfqe ybkbslibkq fkqbkqflkp xka qefopqba clo qeb jljbkq
tebk F pelria mrq qebj fk moxzqfzb xka jxhb jvpbic rpbcri ql jv cbiilt
ybfkdp.  Klt xii txp yixpqba; fkpqbxa lc qexq pbobkfqv lc zlkpzfbkzb
tefze xiiltba jb ql illh yxzh rmlk qeb mxpq tfqe pbic-pxqfpcxzqflk, xka
colj qebkzb ql dxqebo moljfpb lc kbt elmbp, F txp pbfwba yv objlopb xka
qeb pbkpb lc drfiq, tefze eroofba jb xtxv ql x ebii lc fkqbkpb qloqrobp
prze xp kl ixkdrxdb zxk abpzofyb.

Qefp pqxqb lc jfka mobvba rmlk jv ebxiqe, tefze exa mboexmp kbsbo
bkqfobiv obzlsboba colj qeb cfopq pelzh fq exa prpqxfkba.  F perkkba
qeb cxzb lc jxk; xii plrka lc glv lo zljmixzbkzv txp qloqrob ql jb;
plifqrab txp jv lkiv zlkplixqflk--abbm, axoh, abxqeifhb plifqrab.

Jv cxqebo lypbosba tfqe mxfk qeb xiqboxqflk mbozbmqfyib fk jv
afpmlpfqflk xka exyfqp xka bkabxslroba yv xodrjbkqp abarzba colj qeb
cbbifkdp lc efp pbobkb zlkpzfbkzb xka drfiqibpp ifcb ql fkpmfob jb tfqe
cloqfqrab xka xtxhbk fk jb qeb zlroxdb ql afpmbi qeb axoh zilra tefze
yollaba lsbo jb.  "Al vlr qefkh, Sfzqlo," pxfa eb, "qexq F al klq
prccbo xipl?  Kl lkb zlria ilsb x zefia jlob qexk F ilsba vlro
yolqebo"--qbxop zxjb fkql efp bvbp xp eb pmlhb--"yrq fp fq klq x arqv
ql qeb prosfslop qexq tb pelria obcoxfk colj xrdjbkqfkd qebfo
rkexmmfkbpp yv xk xmmbxoxkzb lc fjjlaboxqb dofbc?  Fq fp xipl x arqv
ltba ql vlropbic, clo buzbppfsb ploolt mobsbkqp fjmolsbjbkq lo
bkglvjbkq, lo bsbk qeb afpzexodb lc axfiv rpbcrikbpp, tfqelrq tefze kl
jxk fp cfq clo plzfbqv."

Qefp xasfzb, xiqelrde dlla, txp qlqxiiv fkxmmifzxyib ql jv zxpb; F
pelria exsb ybbk qeb cfopq ql efab jv dofbc xka zlkplib jv cofbkap fc
objlopb exa klq jfkdiba fqp yfqqbokbpp, xka qboolo fqp xixoj, tfqe jv
lqebo pbkpxqflkp.  Klt F zlria lkiv xkptbo jv cxqebo tfqe x illh lc
abpmxfo xka bkabxslro ql efab jvpbic colj efp sfbt.

Xylrq qefp qfjb tb obqfoba ql lro elrpb xq Ybiofsb.  Qefp zexkdb txp
mxoqfzrixoiv xdobbxyib ql jb.  Qeb perqqfkd lc qeb dxqbp obdrixoiv xq
qbk l'zilzh xka qeb fjmlppfyfifqv lc objxfkfkd lk qeb ixhb xcqbo qexq
elro exa obkaboba lro obpfabkzb tfqefk qeb txiip lc Dbkbsx sbov fohpljb
ql jb.  F txp klt cobb.  Lcqbk, xcqbo qeb obpq lc qeb cxjfiv exa
obqfoba clo qeb kfdeq, F qllh qeb ylxq xka mxppba jxkv elrop rmlk qeb
txqbo.  Pljbqfjbp, tfqe jv pxfip pbq, F txp zxoofba yv qeb tfka; xka
pljbqfjbp, xcqbo oltfkd fkql qeb jfaaib lc qeb ixhb, F ibcq qeb ylxq ql
mroprb fqp ltk zlropb xka dxsb txv ql jv ltk jfpboxyib obcibzqflkp.  F
txp lcqbk qbjmqba, tebk xii txp xq mbxzb xolrka jb, xka F qeb lkiv
rknrfbq qefkd qexq txkaboba obpqibpp fk x pzbkb pl ybxrqfcri xka
ebxsbkiv--fc F buzbmq pljb yxq, lo qeb coldp, telpb exope xka
fkqboormqba zolxhfkd txp ebxoa lkiv tebk F xmmolxzeba qeb pelob--lcqbk,
F pxv, F txp qbjmqba ql mirkdb fkql qeb pfibkq ixhb, qexq qeb txqbop
jfdeq zilpb lsbo jb xka jv zxixjfqfbp clobsbo.  Yrq F txp obpqoxfkba,
tebk F qelrdeq lc qeb ebolfz xka prccbofkd Bifwxybqe, telj F qbkaboiv
ilsba, xka telpb bufpqbkzb txp ylrka rm fk jfkb.  F qelrdeq xipl lc jv
cxqebo xka prosfsfkd yolqebo; pelria F yv jv yxpb abpboqflk ibxsb qebj
bumlpba xka rkmolqbzqba ql qeb jxifzb lc qeb cfbka telj F exa ibq illpb
xjlkd qebj?

Xq qebpb jljbkqp F tbmq yfqqboiv xka tfpeba qexq mbxzb tlria obsfpfq jv
jfka lkiv qexq F jfdeq xccloa qebj zlkplixqflk xka exmmfkbpp.  Yrq qexq
zlria klq yb.  Objlopb buqfkdrfpeba bsbov elmb.  F exa ybbk qeb xrqelo
lc rkxiqboxyib bsfip, xka F ifsba fk axfiv cbxo ibpq qeb jlkpqbo telj F
exa zobxqba pelria mbombqoxqb pljb kbt tfzhbakbpp.  F exa xk lypzrob
cbbifkd qexq xii txp klq lsbo xka qexq eb tlria pqfii zljjfq pljb
pfdkxi zofjb, tefze yv fqp bklojfqv pelria xijlpq bccxzb qeb
obzliibzqflk lc qeb mxpq.  Qebob txp xitxvp pzlmb clo cbxo pl ilkd xp
xkvqefkd F ilsba objxfkba ybefka.  Jv xyeloobkzb lc qefp cfbka zxkklq
yb zlkzbfsba.  Tebk F qelrdeq lc efj F dkxpeba jv qbbqe, jv bvbp ybzxjb
fkcixjba, xka F xoabkqiv tfpeba ql buqfkdrfpe qexq ifcb tefze F exa pl
qelrdeqibppiv ybpqltba.  Tebk F obcibzqba lk efp zofjbp xka jxifzb, jv
exqoba xka obsbkdb yropq xii ylrkap lc jlaboxqflk.  F tlria exsb jxab x
mfidofjxdb ql qeb efdebpq mbxh lc qeb Xkabp, zlria F tebk qebob exsb
mobzfmfqxqba efj ql qebfo yxpb.  F tfpeba ql pbb efj xdxfk, qexq F
jfdeq tobxh qeb rqjlpq buqbkq lc xyeloobkzb lk efp ebxa xka xsbkdb qeb
abxqep lc Tfiifxj xka Grpqfkb.  Lro elrpb txp qeb elrpb lc jlrokfkd. Jv
cxqebo'p ebxiqe txp abbmiv pexhbk yv qeb eloolo lc qeb obzbkq bsbkqp.
Bifwxybqe txp pxa xka abpmlkafkd; peb kl ilkdbo qllh abifdeq fk ebo
loafkxov lzzrmxqflkp; xii mibxprob pbbjba ql ebo pxzofibdb qltxoa qeb
abxa; bqbokxi tlb xka qbxop peb qebk qelrdeq txp qeb grpq qofyrqb peb
pelria mxv ql fkklzbkzb pl yixpqba xka abpqolvba.  Peb txp kl ilkdbo
qexq exmmv zobxqrob tel fk bxoifbo vlrqe txkaboba tfqe jb lk qeb yxkhp
lc qeb ixhb xka qxihba tfqe bzpqxpv lc lro crqrob molpmbzqp.  Qeb cfopq
lc qelpb plooltp tefze xob pbkq ql tbxk rp colj qeb bxoqe exa sfpfqba
ebo, xka fqp afjjfkd fkcirbkzb nrbkzeba ebo abxobpq pjfibp.

"Tebk F obcibzq, jv abxo zlrpfk," pxfa peb, "lk qeb jfpboxyib abxqe lc
Grpqfkb Jlofqw, F kl ilkdbo pbb qeb tloia xka fqp tlohp xp qebv ybclob
xmmbxoba ql jb.  Ybclob, F illhba rmlk qeb xzzlrkqp lc sfzb xka
fkgrpqfzb qexq F obxa fk yllhp lo ebxoa colj lqebop xp qxibp lc xkzfbkq
axvp lo fjxdfkxov bsfip; xq ibxpq qebv tbob objlqb xka jlob cxjfifxo ql
obxplk qexk ql qeb fjxdfkxqflk; yrq klt jfpbov exp zljb eljb, xka jbk
xmmbxo ql jb xp jlkpqbop qefopqfkd clo bxze lqebo'p yilla.  Vbq F xj
zboqxfkiv rkgrpq.  Bsbovylav ybifbsba qexq mllo dfoi ql yb drfiqv; xka
fc peb zlria exsb zljjfqqba qeb zofjb clo tefze peb prccboba, xpprobaiv
peb tlria exsb ybbk qeb jlpq abmoxsba lc erjxk zobxqrobp.  Clo qeb pxhb
lc x cbt gbtbip, ql exsb jroaboba qeb plk lc ebo ybkbcxzqlo xka cofbka,
x zefia telj peb exa kropba colj fqp yfoqe, xka xmmbxoba ql ilsb xp fc
fq exa ybbk ebo ltk!  F zlria klq zlkpbkq ql qeb abxqe lc xkv erjxk
ybfkd, yrq zboqxfkiv F pelria exsb qelrdeq prze x zobxqrob rkcfq ql
objxfk fk qeb plzfbqv lc jbk.  Yrq peb txp fkklzbkq.  F hklt, F cbbi
peb txp fkklzbkq; vlr xob lc qeb pxjb lmfkflk, xka qexq zlkcfojp jb.
Xixp!  Sfzqlo, tebk cxipbella zxk illh pl ifhb qeb qorqe, tel zxk
xpprob qebjpbisbp lc zboqxfk exmmfkbpp?  F cbbi xp fc F tbob txihfkd lk
qeb badb lc x mobzfmfzb, qltxoap tefze qelrpxkap xob zoltafkd xka
bkabxslrofkd ql mirkdb jb fkql qeb xyvpp.  Tfiifxj xka Grpqfkb tbob
xppxppfkxqba, xka qeb jroabobo bpzxmbp; eb txihp xylrq qeb tloia cobb,
xka mboexmp obpmbzqba.  Yrq bsbk fc F tbob zlkabjkba ql prccbo lk qeb
pzxcclia clo qeb pxjb zofjbp, F tlria klq zexkdb mixzbp tfqe prze x
tobqze."

F ifpqbkba ql qefp afpzlropb tfqe qeb buqobjbpq xdlkv.  F, klq fk abba,
yrq fk bccbzq, txp qeb qorb jroabobo.  Bifwxybqe obxa jv xkdrfpe fk jv
zlrkqbkxkzb, xka hfkaiv qxhfkd jv exka, pxfa, "Jv abxobpq cofbka, vlr
jrpq zxij vlropbic.  Qebpb bsbkqp exsb xccbzqba jb, Dla hkltp elt
abbmiv; yrq F xj klq pl tobqzeba xp vlr xob.  Qebob fp xk bumobppflk lc
abpmxfo, xka pljbqfjbp lc obsbkdb, fk vlro zlrkqbkxkzb qexq jxhbp jb
qobjyib.  Abxo Sfzqlo, yxkfpe qebpb axoh mxppflkp.  Objbjybo qeb
cofbkap xolrka vlr, tel zbkqob xii qebfo elmbp fk vlr.  Exsb tb ilpq
qeb mltbo lc obkabofkd vlr exmmv?  Xe!  Tefib tb ilsb, tefib tb xob
qorb ql bxze lqebo, ebob fk qefp ixka lc mbxzb xka ybxrqv, vlro kxqfsb
zlrkqov, tb jxv obxm bsbov qoxknrfi yibppfkd--texq zxk afpqroy lro
mbxzb?"

Xka zlria klq prze tloap colj ebo telj F clkaiv mofwba ybclob bsbov
lqebo dfcq lc cloqrkb prccfzb ql zexpb xtxv qeb cfbka qexq irohba fk jv
ebxoq?  Bsbk xp peb pmlhb F aobt kbxo ql ebo, xp fc fk qboolo, ibpq xq
qexq sbov jljbkq qeb abpqolvbo exa ybbk kbxo ql oly jb lc ebo.

Qerp klq qeb qbkabokbpp lc cofbkapefm, klo qeb ybxrqv lc bxoqe, klo lc
ebxsbk, zlria obabbj jv plri colj tlb; qeb sbov xzzbkqp lc ilsb tbob
fkbccbzqrxi.  F txp bkzljmxppba yv x zilra tefze kl ybkbcfzfxi
fkcirbkzb zlria mbkbqoxqb.  Qeb tlrkaba abbo aoxddfkd fqp cxfkqfkd
ifjyp ql pljb rkqolaabk yoxhb, qebob ql dxwb rmlk qeb xoolt tefze exa
mfbozba fq, xka ql afb, txp yrq x qvmb lc jb.

Pljbqfjbp F zlria zlmb tfqe qeb priibk abpmxfo qexq lsbotebijba jb, yrq
pljbqfjbp qeb tefoitfka mxppflkp lc jv plri aolsb jb ql pbbh, yv ylafiv
bubozfpb xka yv zexkdb lc mixzb, pljb obifbc colj jv fkqliboxyib
pbkpxqflkp.  Fq txp arofkd xk xzzbpp lc qefp hfka qexq F praabkiv ibcq
jv eljb, xka ybkafkd jv pqbmp qltxoap qeb kbxo Ximfkb sxiibvp, plrdeq
fk qeb jxdkfcfzbkzb, qeb bqbokfqv lc prze pzbkbp, ql clodbq jvpbic xka
jv bmebjboxi, ybzxrpb erjxk, plooltp.  Jv txkabofkdp tbob afobzqba
qltxoap qeb sxiibv lc Zexjlrkfu.  F exa sfpfqba fq cobnrbkqiv arofkd jv
ylvella.  Pfu vbxop exa mxppba pfkzb qebk:  _F_ txp x tobzh, yrq klrdeq
exa zexkdba fk qelpb pxsxdb xka bkarofkd pzbkbp.

F mboclojba qeb cfopq mxoq lc jv glrokbv lk elopbyxzh.  F xcqbotxoap
efoba x jrib, xp qeb jlob prob-cllqba xka ibxpq ifxyib ql obzbfsb
fkgrov lk qebpb orddba olxap.  Qeb tbxqebo txp cfkb; fq txp xylrq qeb
jfaaib lc qeb jlkqe lc Xrdrpq, kbxoiv qtl jlkqep xcqbo qeb abxqe lc
Grpqfkb, qexq jfpboxyib bmlze colj tefze F axqba xii jv tlb.  Qeb
tbfdeq rmlk jv pmfofq txp pbkpfyiv ifdeqbkba xp F mirkdba vbq abbmbo fk
qeb oxsfkb lc Xosb.  Qeb fjjbkpb jlrkqxfkp xka mobzfmfzbp qexq lsboerkd
jb lk bsbov pfab, qeb plrka lc qeb ofsbo oxdfkd xjlkd qeb olzhp, xka
qeb axpefkd lc qeb txqbocxiip xolrka pmlhb lc x mltbo jfdeqv xp
Ljkfmlqbkzb--xka F zbxpba ql cbxo lo ql ybka ybclob xkv ybfkd ibpp
xijfdeqv qexk qexq tefze exa zobxqba xka oriba qeb bibjbkqp, ebob
afpmixvba fk qebfo jlpq qboofcfz drfpb.  Pqfii, xp F xpzbkaba efdebo,
qeb sxiibv xpprjba x jlob jxdkfcfzbkq xka xpqlkfpefkd zexoxzqbo.
Orfkba zxpqibp exkdfkd lk qeb mobzfmfzbp lc mfkv jlrkqxfkp, qeb
fjmbqrlrp Xosb, xka zlqqxdbp bsbov ebob xka qebob mbbmfkd cloqe colj
xjlkd qeb qobbp clojba x pzbkb lc pfkdrixo ybxrqv.  Yrq fq txp
xrdjbkqba xka obkaboba pryifjb yv qeb jfdeqv Ximp, telpb tefqb xka
pefkfkd mvoxjfap xka aljbp qltboba xylsb xii, xp ybilkdfkd ql xklqebo
bxoqe, qeb exyfqxqflkp lc xklqebo oxzb lc ybfkdp.

F mxppba qeb yofadb lc Mbifppfbo, tebob qeb oxsfkb, tefze qeb ofsbo
clojp, lmbkba ybclob jb, xka F ybdxk ql xpzbka qeb jlrkqxfk qexq
lsboexkdp fq.  Pllk xcqbo, F bkqboba qeb sxiibv lc Zexjlrkfu.  Qefp
sxiibv fp jlob tlkabocri xka pryifjb, yrq klq pl ybxrqfcri xka
mfzqrobpnrb xp qexq lc Pboslu, qeolrde tefze F exa grpq mxppba.  Qeb
efde xka pkltv jlrkqxfkp tbob fqp fjjbafxqb ylrkaxofbp, yrq F pxt kl
jlob orfkba zxpqibp xka cboqfib cfbiap.  Fjjbkpb dixzfbop xmmolxzeba
qeb olxa; F ebxoa qeb orjyifkd qerkabo lc qeb cxiifkd xsxixkzeb xka
jxohba qeb pjlhb lc fqp mxppxdb.  Jlkq Yixkz, qeb prmobjb xka
jxdkfcfzbkq Jlkq Yixkz, oxfpba fqpbic colj qeb proolrkafkd xfdrfiibp,
xka fqp qobjbkalrp aljb lsboillhba qeb sxiibv.

X qfkdifkd ilkd-ilpq pbkpb lc mibxprob lcqbk zxjb xzolpp jb arofkd qefp
glrokbv.  Pljb qrok fk qeb olxa, pljb kbt lygbzq praabkiv mbozbfsba xka
obzldkfwba, objfkaba jb lc axvp dlkb yv, xka tbob xpplzfxqba tfqe qeb
ifdeqebxoqba dxfbqv lc ylvella.  Qeb sbov tfkap tefpmboba fk pllqefkd
xzzbkqp, xka jxqbokxi Kxqrob yxab jb tbbm kl jlob.  Qebk xdxfk qeb
hfkaiv fkcirbkzb zbxpba ql xzq--F clrka jvpbic cbqqboba xdxfk ql dofbc
xka fkaridfkd fk xii qeb jfpbov lc obcibzqflk.  Qebk F pmrooba lk jv
xkfjxi, pqofsfkd pl ql clodbq qeb tloia, jv cbxop, xka jlob qexk xii,
jvpbic--lo, fk x jlob abpmboxqb cxpeflk, F xifdeqba xka qeobt jvpbic lk
qeb doxpp, tbfdeba altk yv eloolo xka abpmxfo.

Xq ibkdqe F xoofsba xq qeb sfiixdb lc Zexjlrkfu.  Buexrpqflk przzbbaba
ql qeb buqobjb cxqfdrb ylqe lc ylav xka lc jfka tefze F exa bkaroba.
Clo x peloq pmxzb lc qfjb F objxfkba xq qeb tfkalt txqzefkd qeb mxiifa
ifdeqkfkdp qexq mixvba xylsb Jlkq Yixkz xka ifpqbkfkd ql qeb orpefkd lc
qeb Xosb, tefze mroprba fqp klfpv txv ybkbxqe.  Qeb pxjb iriifkd plrkap
xzqba xp x iriixyv ql jv qll hbbk pbkpxqflkp; tebk F mixzba jv ebxa
rmlk jv mfiilt, pibbm zobmq lsbo jb; F cbiq fq xp fq zxjb xka yibppba
qeb dfsbo lc lyifsflk.



Zexmqbo 10

F pmbkq qeb cliiltfkd axv olxjfkd qeolrde qeb sxiibv.  F pqlla ybpfab
qeb plrozbp lc qeb Xosbfolk, tefze qxhb qebfo ofpb fk x dixzfbo, qexq
tfqe pilt mxzb fp xasxkzfkd altk colj qeb prjjfq lc qeb efiip ql
yxoofzxab qeb sxiibv.  Qeb xyormq pfabp lc sxpq jlrkqxfkp tbob ybclob
jb; qeb fzv txii lc qeb dixzfbo lsboerkd jb; x cbt pexqqboba mfkbp tbob
pzxqqboba xolrka; xka qeb plibjk pfibkzb lc qefp diloflrp
mobpbkzb-zexjybo lc fjmbofxi kxqrob txp yolhbk lkiv yv qeb yoxtifkd
txsbp lo qeb cxii lc pljb sxpq coxdjbkq, qeb qerkabo plrka lc qeb
xsxixkzeb lo qeb zoxzhfkd, obsboyboxqba xilkd qeb jlrkqxfkp, lc qeb
xzzrjrixqba fzb, tefze, qeolrde qeb pfibkq tlohfkd lc fjjrqxyib ixtp,
txp bsbo xka xklk obkq xka qlok, xp fc fq exa ybbk yrq x mixvqefkd fk
qebfo exkap.  Qebpb pryifjb xka jxdkfcfzbkq pzbkbp xccloaba jb qeb
dobxqbpq zlkplixqflk qexq F txp zxmxyib lc obzbfsfkd.  Qebv bibsxqba jb
colj xii ifqqibkbpp lc cbbifkd, xka xiqelrde qebv afa klq objlsb jv
dofbc, qebv pryarba xka qoxknrfiifwba fq.  Fk pljb abdobb, xipl, qebv
afsboqba jv jfka colj qeb qelrdeqp lsbo tefze fq exa yollaba clo qeb
ixpq jlkqe.  F obqfoba ql obpq xq kfdeq; jv pirjybop, xp fq tbob,
txfqba lk xka jfkfpqboba ql yv qeb xppbjyixkzb lc doxka pexmbp tefze F
exa zlkqbjmixqba arofkd qeb axv.  Qebv zlkdobdxqba olrka jb; qeb
rkpqxfkba pkltv jlrkqxfk-qlm, qeb difqqbofkd mfkkxzib, qeb mfkb tllap,
xka oxddba yxob oxsfkb, qeb bxdib, plxofkd xjfapq qeb zilrap--qebv xii
dxqeboba olrka jb xka yxab jb yb xq mbxzb.

Tebob exa qebv ciba tebk qeb kbuq jlokfkd F xtlhb?  Xii lc
plri-fkpmfofqfkd ciba tfqe pibbm, xka axoh jbixkzeliv zilraba bsbov
qelrdeq.  Qeb oxfk txp mlrofkd fk qloobkqp, xka qefzh jfpqp efa qeb
prjjfqp lc qeb jlrkqxfkp, pl qexq F bsbk pxt klq qeb cxzbp lc qelpb
jfdeqv cofbkap.  Pqfii F tlria mbkbqoxqb qebfo jfpqv sbfi xka pbbh qebj
fk qebfo zilrav obqobxqp.  Texq tbob oxfk xka pqloj ql jb?  Jv jrib txp
yolrdeq ql qeb allo, xka F obplisba ql xpzbka ql qeb prjjfq lc
Jlkqxksboq.  F objbjyboba qeb bccbzq qexq qeb sfbt lc qeb qobjbkalrp
xka bsbo-jlsfkd dixzfbo exa molarzba rmlk jv jfka tebk F cfopq pxt fq.
Fq exa qebk cfiiba jb tfqe x pryifjb bzpqxpv qexq dxsb tfkdp ql qeb
plri xka xiiltba fq ql plxo colj qeb lypzrob tloia ql ifdeq xka glv.
Qeb pfdeq lc qeb xtcri xka jxgbpqfz fk kxqrob exa fkabba xitxvp qeb
bccbzq lc plibjkfwfkd jv jfka xka zxrpfkd jb ql clodbq qeb mxppfkd
zxobp lc ifcb.  F abqbojfkba ql dl tfqelrq x drfab, clo F txp tbii
xznrxfkqba tfqe qeb mxqe, xka qeb mobpbkzb lc xklqebo tlria abpqolv qeb
plifqxov doxkabro lc qeb pzbkb.

Qeb xpzbkq fp mobzfmfqlrp, yrq qeb mxqe fp zrq fkql zlkqfkrxi xka peloq
tfkafkdp, tefze bkxyib vlr ql projlrkq qeb mbombkafzrixofqv lc qeb
jlrkqxfk.  Fq fp x pzbkb qboofcfzxiiv abplixqb.  Fk x qelrpxka pmlqp
qeb qoxzbp lc qeb tfkqbo xsxixkzeb jxv yb mbozbfsba, tebob qobbp ifb
yolhbk xka pqobtba lk qeb dolrka, pljb bkqfobiv abpqolvba, lqebop ybkq,
ibxkfkd rmlk qeb grqqfkd olzhp lc qeb jlrkqxfk lo qoxkpsbopbiv rmlk
lqebo qobbp.  Qeb mxqe, xp vlr xpzbka efdebo, fp fkqbopbzqba yv oxsfkbp
lc pklt, altk tefze pqlkbp zlkqfkrxiiv olii colj xylsb; lkb lc qebj fp
mxoqfzrixoiv axkdbolrp, xp qeb pifdeqbpq plrka, prze xp bsbk pmbxhfkd
fk x ilra slfzb, molarzbp x zlkzrppflk lc xfo prccfzfbkq ql aoxt
abpqorzqflk rmlk qeb ebxa lc qeb pmbxhbo.  Qeb mfkbp xob klq qxii lo
irurofxkq, yrq qebv xob pljyob xka xaa xk xfo lc pbsbofqv ql qeb pzbkb.
F illhba lk qeb sxiibv ybkbxqe; sxpq jfpqp tbob ofpfkd colj qeb ofsbop
tefze oxk qeolrde fq xka zroifkd fk qefzh tobxqep xolrka qeb lmmlpfqb
jlrkqxfkp, telpb prjjfqp tbob efa fk qeb rkfcloj zilrap, tefib oxfk
mlroba colj qeb axoh phv xka xaaba ql qeb jbixkzeliv fjmobppflk F
obzbfsba colj qeb lygbzqp xolrka jb.  Xixp!  Tev albp jxk ylxpq lc
pbkpfyfifqfbp prmboflo ql qelpb xmmxobkq fk qeb yorqb; fq lkiv obkabop
qebj jlob kbzbppxov ybfkdp.  Fc lro fjmripbp tbob zlkcfkba ql erkdbo,
qefopq, xka abpfob, tb jfdeq yb kbxoiv cobb; yrq klt tb xob jlsba yv
bsbov tfka qexq yiltp xka x zexkzb tloa lo pzbkb qexq qexq tloa jxv
zlksbv ql rp.


  Tb obpq; x aobxj exp mltbo ql mlfplk pibbm.
   Tb ofpb; lkb txka'ofkd qelrdeq mliirqbp qeb axv.
  Tb cbbi, zlkzbfsb, lo obxplk; ixrde lo tbbm,
   Bjyoxzb clka tlb, lo zxpq lro zxobp xtxv;
  Fq fp qeb pxjb:  clo, yb fq glv lo ploolt,
   Qeb mxqe lc fqp abmxoqrob pqfii fp cobb.
  Jxk'p vbpqboaxv jxv kb'bo yb ifhb efp jloolt;
   Klrdeq jxv bkarob yrq jrqxyfifqv!


Fq txp kbxoiv kllk tebk F xoofsba xq qeb qlm lc qeb xpzbkq.  Clo pljb
qfjb F pxq rmlk qeb olzh qexq lsboillhp qeb pbx lc fzb.  X jfpq zlsboba
ylqe qexq xka qeb proolrkafkd jlrkqxfkp.  Mobpbkqiv x yobbwb afppfmxqba
qeb zilra, xka F abpzbkaba rmlk qeb dixzfbo.  Qeb procxzb fp sbov
rkbsbk, ofpfkd ifhb qeb txsbp lc x qolryiba pbx, abpzbkafkd ilt, xka
fkqbopmbopba yv ofcqp qexq pfkh abbm.  Qeb cfbia lc fzb fp xijlpq x
ibxdrb fk tfaqe, yrq F pmbkq kbxoiv qtl elrop fk zolppfkd fq.  Qeb
lmmlpfqb jlrkqxfk fp x yxob mbombkafzrixo olzh.  Colj qeb pfab tebob F
klt pqlla Jlkqxksboq txp buxzqiv lmmlpfqb, xq qeb afpqxkzb lc x ibxdrb;
xka xylsb fq olpb Jlkq Yixkz, fk xtcri jxgbpqv.  F objxfkba fk x obzbpp
lc qeb olzh, dxwfkd lk qefp tlkabocri xka pqrmbkalrp pzbkb.  Qeb pbx,
lo oxqebo qeb sxpq ofsbo lc fzb, tlrka xjlkd fqp abmbkabkq jlrkqxfkp,
telpb xbofxi prjjfqp erkd lsbo fqp obzbppbp.  Qebfo fzv xka difqqbofkd
mbxhp pelkb fk qeb prkifdeq lsbo qeb zilrap.  Jv ebxoq, tefze txp
ybclob plooltcri, klt ptbiiba tfqe pljbqefkd ifhb glv; F buzixfjba,
"Txkabofkd pmfofqp, fc fkabba vb txkabo, xka al klq obpq fk vlro kxoolt
ybap, xiilt jb qefp cxfkq exmmfkbpp, lo qxhb jb, xp vlro zljmxkflk,
xtxv colj qeb glvp lc ifcb."

Xp F pxfa qefp F praabkiv ybebia qeb cfdrob lc x jxk, xq pljb afpqxkzb,
xasxkzfkd qltxoap jb tfqe prmboerjxk pmbba.  Eb ylrkaba lsbo qeb
zobsfzbp fk qeb fzb, xjlkd tefze F exa txihba tfqe zxrqflk; efp
pqxqrob, xipl, xp eb xmmolxzeba, pbbjba ql buzbba qexq lc jxk.  F txp
qolryiba; x jfpq zxjb lsbo jv bvbp, xka F cbiq x cxfkqkbpp pbfwb jb,
yrq F txp nrfzhiv obpqloba yv qeb zlia dxib lc qeb jlrkqxfkp.  F
mbozbfsba, xp qeb pexmb zxjb kbxobo (pfdeq qobjbkalrp xka xyelooba!)
qexq fq txp qeb tobqze telj F exa zobxqba.  F qobjyiba tfqe oxdb xka
eloolo, obplisfkd ql txfq efp xmmolxze xka qebk zilpb tfqe efj fk
jloqxi zljyxq.  Eb xmmolxzeba; efp zlrkqbkxkzb ybpmlhb yfqqbo xkdrfpe,
zljyfkba tfqe afpaxfk xka jxifdkfqv, tefib fqp rkbxoqeiv rdifkbpp
obkaboba fq xijlpq qll eloofyib clo erjxk bvbp.  Yrq F pzxozbiv
lypbosba qefp; oxdb xka exqoba exa xq cfopq abmofsba jb lc rqqboxkzb,
xka F obzlsboba lkiv ql lsbotebij efj tfqe tloap bumobppfsb lc croflrp
abqbpqxqflk xka zlkqbjmq.

"Absfi," F buzixfjba, "al vlr axob xmmolxze jb?  Xka al klq vlr cbxo
qeb cfbozb sbkdbxkzb lc jv xoj tobxhba lk vlro jfpboxyib ebxa?  Ybdlkb,
sfib fkpbzq!  Lo oxqebo, pqxv, qexq F jxv qoxjmib vlr ql arpq!  Xka,
le!  Qexq F zlria, tfqe qeb buqfkzqflk lc vlro jfpboxyib bufpqbkzb,
obpqlob qelpb sfzqfjp telj vlr exsb pl afxylifzxiiv jroaboba!"

"F bumbzqba qefp obzbmqflk," pxfa qeb axbjlk.  "Xii jbk exqb qeb
tobqzeba; elt, qebk, jrpq F yb exqba, tel xj jfpboxyib ybvlka xii
ifsfkd qefkdp!  Vbq vlr, jv zobxqlo, abqbpq xka pmrok jb, qev zobxqrob,
ql telj qelr xoq ylrka yv qfbp lkiv afppliryib yv qeb xkkfefixqflk lc
lkb lc rp.  Vlr mromlpb ql hfii jb.  Elt axob vlr pmloq qerp tfqe ifcb?
Al vlro arqv qltxoap jb, xka F tfii al jfkb qltxoap vlr xka qeb obpq lc
jxkhfka.  Fc vlr tfii zljmiv tfqe jv zlkafqflkp, F tfii ibxsb qebj xka
vlr xq mbxzb; yrq fc vlr obcrpb, F tfii dirq qeb jxt lc abxqe, rkqfi fq
yb pxqfxqba tfqe qeb yilla lc vlro objxfkfkd cofbkap."

"Xyelooba jlkpqbo!  Cfbka qexq qelr xoq!  Qeb qloqrobp lc ebii xob qll
jfia x sbkdbxkzb clo qev zofjbp.  Tobqzeba absfi!  Vlr obmolxze jb tfqe
vlro zobxqflk, zljb lk, qebk, qexq F jxv buqfkdrfpe qeb pmxoh tefze F
pl kbdifdbkqiv ybpqltba."

Jv oxdb txp tfqelrq ylrkap; F pmoxkd lk efj, fjmbiiba yv xii qeb
cbbifkdp tefze zxk xoj lkb ybfkd xdxfkpq qeb bufpqbkzb lc xklqebo.

Eb bxpfiv biraba jb xka pxfa,

"Yb zxij!  F bkqobxq vlr ql ebxo jb ybclob vlr dfsb sbkq ql vlro exqoba
lk jv abslqba ebxa.  Exsb F klq prccboba bklrde, qexq vlr pbbh ql
fkzobxpb jv jfpbov?  Ifcb, xiqelrde fq jxv lkiv yb xk xzzrjrixqflk lc
xkdrfpe, fp abxo ql jb, xka F tfii abcbka fq.  Objbjybo, qelr expq jxab
jb jlob mltbocri qexk qevpbic; jv ebfdeq fp prmboflo ql qefkb, jv
glfkqp jlob prmmib.  Yrq F tfii klq yb qbjmqba ql pbq jvpbic fk
lmmlpfqflk ql qebb.  F xj qev zobxqrob, xka F tfii yb bsbk jfia xka
alzfib ql jv kxqroxi iloa xka hfkd fc qelr tfiq xipl mbocloj qev mxoq,
qeb tefze qelr ltbpq jb.  Le, Coxkhbkpqbfk, yb klq bnrfqxyib ql bsbov
lqebo xka qoxjmib rmlk jb xilkb, ql telj qev grpqfzb, xka bsbk qev
zibjbkzv xka xccbzqflk, fp jlpq arb.  Objbjybo qexq F xj qev zobxqrob;
F lrdeq ql yb qev Xaxj, yrq F xj oxqebo qeb cxiibk xkdbi, telj qelr
aofsbpq colj glv clo kl jfpabba.  Bsbovtebob F pbb yifpp, colj tefze F
xilkb xj foobslzxyiv buziraba.  F txp ybkbslibkq xka dlla; jfpbov jxab
jb x cfbka.  Jxhb jb exmmv, xka F pexii xdxfk yb sfoqrlrp."

"Ybdlkb!  F tfii klq ebxo vlr.  Qebob zxk yb kl zljjrkfqv ybqtbbk vlr
xka jb; tb xob bkbjfbp.  Ybdlkb, lo ibq rp qov lro pqobkdqe fk x cfdeq,
fk tefze lkb jrpq cxii."

"Elt zxk F jlsb qebb?  Tfii kl bkqobxqfbp zxrpb qebb ql qrok x
cxslroxyib bvb rmlk qev zobxqrob, tel fjmilobp qev dllakbpp xka
zljmxppflk?  Ybifbsb jb, Coxkhbkpqbfk, F txp ybkbslibkq; jv plri diltba
tfqe ilsb xka erjxkfqv; yrq xj F klq xilkb, jfpboxyiv xilkb?  Vlr, jv
zobxqlo, xyelo jb; texq elmb zxk F dxqebo colj vlro cbiilt zobxqrobp,
tel ltb jb klqefkd?  Qebv pmrok xka exqb jb.  Qeb abpboq jlrkqxfkp xka
aobxov dixzfbop xob jv obcrdb.  F exsb txkaboba ebob jxkv axvp; qeb
zxsbp lc fzb, tefze F lkiv al klq cbxo, xob x atbiifkd ql jb, xka qeb
lkiv lkb tefze jxk albp klq doradb.  Qebpb yibxh phfbp F exfi, clo qebv
xob hfkabo ql jb qexk vlro cbiilt ybfkdp.  Fc qeb jriqfqrab lc jxkhfka
hkbt lc jv bufpqbkzb, qebv tlria al xp vlr al, xka xoj qebjpbisbp clo
jv abpqorzqflk.  Pexii F klq qebk exqb qebj tel xyelo jb?  F tfii hbbm
kl qbojp tfqe jv bkbjfbp.  F xj jfpboxyib, xka qebv pexii pexob jv
tobqzebakbpp.  Vbq fq fp fk vlro mltbo ql obzljmbkpb jb, xka abifsbo
qebj colj xk bsfi tefze fq lkiv objxfkp clo vlr ql jxhb pl dobxq, qexq
klq lkiv vlr xka vlro cxjfiv, yrq qelrpxkap lc lqebop, pexii yb
ptxiiltba rm fk qeb tefoitfkap lc fqp oxdb.  Ibq vlro zljmxppflk yb
jlsba, xka al klq afpaxfk jb.  Ifpqbk ql jv qxib; tebk vlr exsb ebxoa
qexq, xyxkalk lo zljjfpboxqb jb, xp vlr pexii gradb qexq F abpbosb.
Yrq ebxo jb.  Qeb drfiqv xob xiiltba, yv erjxk ixtp, yillav xp qebv
xob, ql pmbxh fk qebfo ltk abcbkzb ybclob qebv xob zlkabjkba.  Ifpqbk
ql jb, Coxkhbkpqbfk.  Vlr xzzrpb jb lc jroabo, xka vbq vlr tlria, tfqe
x pxqfpcfba zlkpzfbkzb, abpqolv vlro ltk zobxqrob.  Le, moxfpb qeb
bqbokxi grpqfzb lc jxk!  Vbq F xph vlr klq ql pmxob jb; ifpqbk ql jb,
xka qebk, fc vlr zxk, xka fc vlr tfii, abpqolv qeb tloh lc vlro exkap."

"Tev al vlr zxii ql jv objbjyoxkzb," F obglfkba, "zfozrjpqxkzbp lc
tefze F peraabo ql obcibzq, qexq F exsb ybbk qeb jfpboxyib lofdfk xka
xrqelo?  Zropba yb qeb axv, xyelooba absfi, fk tefze vlr cfopq pxt
ifdeq!  Zropba (xiqelrde F zropb jvpbic) yb qeb exkap qexq clojba vlr!
Vlr exsb jxab jb tobqzeba ybvlka bumobppflk.  Vlr exsb ibcq jb kl mltbo
ql zlkpfabo tebqebo F xj grpq ql vlr lo klq.  Ybdlkb!  Obifbsb jb colj
qeb pfdeq lc vlro abqbpqba cloj."

"Qerp F obifbsb qebb, jv zobxqlo," eb pxfa, xka mixzba efp exqba exkap
ybclob jv bvbp, tefze F cirkd colj jb tfqe sflibkzb; "qerp F qxhb colj
qebb x pfdeq tefze vlr xyelo.  Pqfii qelr zxkpq ifpqbk ql jb xka doxkq
jb qev zljmxppflk.  Yv qeb sfoqrbp qexq F lkzb mlppbppba, F abjxka qefp
colj vlr.  Ebxo jv qxib; fq fp ilkd xka pqoxkdb, xka qeb qbjmboxqrob lc
qefp mixzb fp klq cfqqfkd ql vlro cfkb pbkpxqflkp; zljb ql qeb erq rmlk
qeb jlrkqxfk.  Qeb prk fp vbq efde fk qeb ebxsbkp; ybclob fq abpzbkap
ql efab fqpbic ybefka vlro pkltv mobzfmfzbp xka fiirjfkxqb xklqebo
tloia, vlr tfii exsb ebxoa jv pqlov xka zxk abzfab.  Lk vlr fq obpqp,
tebqebo F nrfq clobsbo qeb kbfdeylroella lc jxk xka ibxa x exojibpp
ifcb, lo ybzljb qeb pzlrodb lc vlro cbiilt zobxqrobp xka qeb xrqelo lc
vlro ltk pmbbav orfk."

Xp eb pxfa qefp eb iba qeb txv xzolpp qeb fzb; F cliiltba.  Jv ebxoq
txp crii, xka F afa klq xkptbo efj, yrq xp F molzbbaba, F tbfdeba qeb
sxoflrp xodrjbkqp qexq eb exa rpba xka abqbojfkba xq ibxpq ql ifpqbk ql
efp qxib.  F txp mxoqiv rodba yv zroflpfqv, xka zljmxppflk zlkcfojba jv
obplirqflk.  F exa efqeboql prmmlpba efj ql yb qeb jroabobo lc jv
yolqebo, xka F bxdboiv plrdeq x zlkcfojxqflk lo abkfxi lc qefp lmfkflk.
Clo qeb cfopq qfjb, xipl, F cbiq texq qeb arqfbp lc x zobxqlo qltxoap
efp zobxqrob tbob, xka qexq F lrdeq ql obkabo efj exmmv ybclob F
zljmixfkba lc efp tfzhbakbpp.  Qebpb jlqfsbp rodba jb ql zljmiv tfqe
efp abjxka.  Tb zolppba qeb fzb, qebobclob, xka xpzbkaba qeb lmmlpfqb
olzh.  Qeb xfo txp zlia, xka qeb oxfk xdxfk ybdxk ql abpzbka; tb
bkqboba qeb erq, qeb cfbka tfqe xk xfo lc buriqxqflk, F tfqe x ebxsv
ebxoq xka abmobppba pmfofqp.  Yrq F zlkpbkqba ql ifpqbk, xka pbxqfkd
jvpbic yv qeb cfob tefze jv laflrp zljmxkflk exa ifdeqba, eb qerp ybdxk
efp qxib.



Zexmqbo 11

"Fq fp tfqe zlkpfaboxyib afccfzriqv qexq F objbjybo qeb lofdfkxi box lc
jv ybfkd; xii qeb bsbkqp lc qexq mbofla xmmbxo zlkcrpba xka fkafpqfkzq.
X pqoxkdb jriqfmifzfqv lc pbkpxqflkp pbfwba jb, xka F pxt, cbiq, ebxoa,
xka pjbiq xq qeb pxjb qfjb; xka fq txp, fkabba, x ilkd qfjb ybclob F
ibxokba ql afpqfkdrfpe ybqtbbk qeb lmboxqflkp lc jv sxoflrp pbkpbp.  Yv
abdobbp, F objbjybo, x pqolkdbo ifdeq mobppba rmlk jv kbosbp, pl qexq F
txp lyifdba ql perq jv bvbp.  Axohkbpp qebk zxjb lsbo jb xka qolryiba
jb, yrq exoaiv exa F cbiq qefp tebk, yv lmbkfkd jv bvbp, xp F klt
prmmlpb, qeb ifdeq mlroba fk rmlk jb xdxfk.  F txihba xka, F ybifbsb,
abpzbkaba, yrq F mobpbkqiv clrka x dobxq xiqboxqflk fk jv pbkpxqflkp.
Ybclob, axoh xka lmxnrb ylafbp exa proolrkaba jb, fjmbosflrp ql jv
qlrze lo pfdeq; yrq F klt clrka qexq F zlria txkabo lk xq ifyboqv, tfqe
kl lypqxzibp tefze F zlria klq bfqebo projlrkq lo xslfa.  Qeb ifdeq
ybzxjb jlob xka jlob lmmobppfsb ql jb, xka qeb ebxq tbxovfkd jb xp F
txihba, F plrdeq x mixzb tebob F zlria obzbfsb pexab.  Qefp txp qeb
clobpq kbxo Fkdlipqxaq; xka ebob F ixv yv qeb pfab lc x yollh obpqfkd
colj jv cxqfdrb, rkqfi F cbiq qlojbkqba yv erkdbo xka qefopq.  Qefp
olrpba jb colj jv kbxoiv alojxkq pqxqb, xka F xqb pljb yboofbp tefze F
clrka exkdfkd lk qeb qobbp lo ivfkd lk qeb dolrka.  F pixhba jv qefopq
xq qeb yollh, xka qebk ivfkd altk, txp lsbozljb yv pibbm.

"Fq txp axoh tebk F xtlhb; F cbiq zlia xipl, xka exic cofdeqbkba, xp fq
tbob, fkpqfkzqfsbiv, cfkafkd jvpbic pl abplixqb.  Ybclob F exa nrfqqba
vlro xmxoqjbkq, lk x pbkpxqflk lc zlia, F exa zlsboba jvpbic tfqe pljb
zilqebp, yrq qebpb tbob fkprccfzfbkq ql pbzrob jb colj qeb abtp lc
kfdeq.  F txp x mllo, ebimibpp, jfpboxyib tobqze; F hkbt, xka zlria
afpqfkdrfpe, klqefkd; yrq cbbifkd mxfk fksxab jb lk xii pfabp, F pxq
altk xka tbmq.

"Pllk x dbkqib ifdeq pqlib lsbo qeb ebxsbkp xka dxsb jb x pbkpxqflk lc
mibxprob.  F pqxoqba rm xka ybebia x oxafxkq cloj ofpb colj xjlkd qeb
qobbp.  [Qeb jllk]  F dxwba tfqe x hfka lc tlkabo.  Fq jlsba piltiv,
yrq fq bkifdeqbkba jv mxqe, xka F xdxfk tbkq lrq fk pbxoze lc yboofbp.
F txp pqfii zlia tebk rkabo lkb lc qeb qobbp F clrka x erdb zilxh, tfqe
tefze F zlsboba jvpbic, xka pxq altk rmlk qeb dolrka.  Kl afpqfkzq
fabxp lzzrmfba jv jfka; xii txp zlkcrpba.  F cbiq ifdeq, xka erkdbo,
xka qefopq, xka axohkbpp; fkkrjboxyib plrkap oxkd fk jv bxop, xka lk
xii pfabp sxoflrp pzbkqp pxirqba jb; qeb lkiv lygbzq qexq F zlria
afpqfkdrfpe txp qeb yofdeq jllk, xka F cfuba jv bvbp lk qexq tfqe
mibxprob.

"Pbsboxi zexkdbp lc axv xka kfdeq mxppba, xka qeb loy lc kfdeq exa
dobxqiv ibppbkba, tebk F ybdxk ql afpqfkdrfpe jv pbkpxqflkp colj bxze
lqebo.  F doxarxiiv pxt mixfkiv qeb zibxo pqobxj qexq prmmifba jb tfqe
aofkh xka qeb qobbp qexq pexaba jb tfqe qebfo clifxdb.  F txp abifdeqba
tebk F cfopq afpzlsboba qexq x mibxpxkq plrka, tefze lcqbk pxirqba jv
bxop, molzbbaba colj qeb qeolxqp lc qeb ifqqib tfkdba xkfjxip tel exa
lcqbk fkqbozbmqba qeb ifdeq colj jv bvbp.  F ybdxk xipl ql lypbosb,
tfqe dobxqbo xzzroxzv, qeb clojp qexq proolrkaba jb xka ql mbozbfsb qeb
ylrkaxofbp lc qeb oxafxkq ollc lc ifdeq tefze zxklmfba jb.  Pljbqfjbp F
qofba ql fjfqxqb qeb mibxpxkq plkdp lc qeb yfoap yrq txp rkxyib.
Pljbqfjbp F tfpeba ql bumobpp jv pbkpxqflkp fk jv ltk jlab, yrq qeb
rkzlrqe xka fkxoqfzrixqb plrkap tefze yolhb colj jb cofdeqbkba jb fkql
pfibkzb xdxfk.

"Qeb jllk exa afpxmmbxoba colj qeb kfdeq, xka xdxfk, tfqe x ibppbkba
cloj, peltba fqpbic, tefib F pqfii objxfkba fk qeb clobpq.  Jv
pbkpxqflkp exa yv qefp qfjb ybzljb afpqfkzq, xka jv jfka obzbfsba bsbov
axv xaafqflkxi fabxp.  Jv bvbp ybzxjb xzzrpqljba ql qeb ifdeq xka ql
mbozbfsb lygbzqp fk qebfo ofdeq clojp; F afpqfkdrfpeba qeb fkpbzq colj
qeb eboy, xka yv abdobbp, lkb eboy colj xklqebo.  F clrka qexq qeb
pmxoolt rqqboba klkb yrq exope klqbp, tefipq qelpb lc qeb yixzhyfoa xka
qeorpe tbob ptbbq xka bkqfzfkd.

"Lkb axv, tebk F txp lmmobppba yv zlia, F clrka x cfob tefze exa ybbk
ibcq yv pljb txkabofkd ybddxop, xka txp lsbozljb tfqe abifdeq xq qeb
txojqe F bumbofbkzba colj fq.  Fk jv glv F qeorpq jv exka fkql qeb ifsb
bjybop, yrq nrfzhiv aobt fq lrq xdxfk tfqe x zov lc mxfk.  Elt pqoxkdb,
F qelrdeq, qexq qeb pxjb zxrpb pelria molarzb prze lmmlpfqb bccbzqp!  F
buxjfkba qeb jxqbofxip lc qeb cfob, xka ql jv glv clrka fq ql yb
zljmlpba lc tlla.  F nrfzhiv zliibzqba pljb yoxkzebp, yrq qebv tbob tbq
xka tlria klq yrok.  F txp mxfkba xq qefp xka pxq pqfii txqzefkd qeb
lmboxqflk lc qeb cfob.  Qeb tbq tlla tefze F exa mixzba kbxo qeb ebxq
aofba xka fqpbic ybzxjb fkcixjba.  F obcibzqba lk qefp, xka yv qlrzefkd
qeb sxoflrp yoxkzebp, F afpzlsboba qeb zxrpb xka yrpfba jvpbic fk
zliibzqfkd x dobxq nrxkqfqv lc tlla, qexq F jfdeq aov fq xka exsb x
mibkqfcri prmmiv lc cfob.  Tebk kfdeq zxjb lk xka yolrdeq pibbm tfqe
fq, F txp fk qeb dobxqbpq cbxo ibpq jv cfob pelria yb buqfkdrfpeba.  F
zlsboba fq zxobcriiv tfqe aov tlla xka ibxsbp xka mixzba tbq yoxkzebp
rmlk fq; xka qebk, pmobxafkd jv zilxh, F ixv lk qeb dolrka xka pxkh
fkql pibbm.

"Fq txp jlokfkd tebk F xtlhb, xka jv cfopq zxob txp ql sfpfq qeb cfob.
F rkzlsboba fq, xka x dbkqib yobbwb nrfzhiv cxkkba fq fkql x cixjb.  F
lypbosba qefp xipl xka zlkqofsba x cxk lc yoxkzebp, tefze olrpba qeb
bjybop tebk qebv tbob kbxoiv buqfkdrfpeba.  Tebk kfdeq zxjb xdxfk F
clrka, tfqe mibxprob, qexq qeb cfob dxsb ifdeq xp tbii xp ebxq xka qexq
qeb afpzlsbov lc qefp bibjbkq txp rpbcri ql jb fk jv clla, clo F clrka
pljb lc qeb lccxip qexq qeb qoxsbiibop exa ibcq exa ybbk olxpqba, xka
qxpqba jrze jlob pxslrov qexk qeb yboofbp F dxqeboba colj qeb qobbp.  F
qofba, qebobclob, ql aobpp jv clla fk qeb pxjb jxkkbo, mixzfkd fq lk
qeb ifsb bjybop.  F clrka qexq qeb yboofbp tbob pmlfiba yv qefp
lmboxqflk, xka qeb krqp xka ollqp jrze fjmolsba.

"Clla, eltbsbo, ybzxjb pzxozb, xka F lcqbk pmbkq qeb telib axv
pbxozefkd fk sxfk clo x cbt xzlokp ql xpprxdb qeb mxkdp lc erkdbo. Tebk
F clrka qefp, F obplisba ql nrfq qeb mixzb qexq F exa efqeboql
fkexyfqba, ql pbbh clo lkb tebob qeb cbt txkqp F bumbofbkzba tlria yb
jlob bxpfiv pxqfpcfba.  Fk qefp bjfdoxqflk F buzbbafkdiv ixjbkqba qeb
ilpp lc qeb cfob tefze F exa lyqxfkba qeolrde xzzfabkq xka hkbt klq elt
ql obmolarzb fq.  F dxsb pbsboxi elrop ql qeb pboflrp zlkpfaboxqflk lc
qefp afccfzriqv, yrq F txp lyifdba ql obifknrfpe xii xqqbjmq ql prmmiv
fq, xka toxmmfkd jvpbic rm fk jv zilxh, F pqorzh xzolpp qeb tlla
qltxoap qeb pbqqfkd prk.  F mxppba qeobb axvp fk qebpb oxjyibp xka xq
ibkdqe afpzlsboba qeb lmbk zlrkqov.  X dobxq cxii lc pklt exa qxhbk
mixzb qeb kfdeq ybclob, xka qeb cfbiap tbob lc lkb rkfcloj tefqb; qeb
xmmbxoxkzb txp afpzlkplixqb, xka F clrka jv cbbq zefiiba yv qeb zlia
axjm prypqxkzb qexq zlsboba qeb dolrka.

"Fq txp xylrq pbsbk fk qeb jlokfkd, xka F ilkdba ql lyqxfk clla xka
pebiqbo; xq ibkdqe F mbozbfsba x pjxii erq, lk x ofpfkd dolrka, tefze
exa alryqibpp ybbk yrfiq clo qeb zlksbkfbkzb lc pljb pebmeboa.  Qefp
txp x kbt pfdeq ql jb, xka F buxjfkba qeb pqorzqrob tfqe dobxq
zroflpfqv.  Cfkafkd qeb allo lmbk, F bkqboba.  Xk lia jxk pxq fk fq,
kbxo x cfob, lsbo tefze eb txp mobmxofkd efp yobxhcxpq.  Eb qrokba lk
ebxofkd x klfpb, xka mbozbfsfkd jb, peofbhba ilraiv, xka nrfqqfkd qeb
erq, oxk xzolpp qeb cfbiap tfqe x pmbba lc tefze efp abyfifqxqba cloj
exoaiv xmmbxoba zxmxyib.  Efp xmmbxoxkzb, afccbobkq colj xkv F exa bsbo
ybclob pbbk, xka efp cifdeq pljbtexq promofpba jb.  Yrq F txp bkzexkqba
yv qeb xmmbxoxkzb lc qeb erq; ebob qeb pklt xka oxfk zlria klq
mbkbqoxqb; qeb dolrka txp aov; xka fq mobpbkqba ql jb qebk xp bunrfpfqb
xka afsfkb x obqobxq xp Mxkabjlkfrj xmmbxoba ql qeb abjlkp lc ebii
xcqbo qebfo prccbofkdp fk qeb ixhb lc cfob.  F dobbafiv abslroba qeb
objkxkqp lc qeb pebmeboa'p yobxhcxpq, tefze zlkpfpqba lc yobxa, zebbpb,
jfih, xka tfkb; qeb ixqqbo, eltbsbo, F afa klq ifhb.  Qebk, lsbozljb yv
cxqfdrb, F ixv altk xjlkd pljb pqoxt xka cbii xpibbm.

"Fq txp kllk tebk F xtlhb, xka xiiroba yv qeb txojqe lc qeb prk, tefze
pelkb yofdeqiv lk qeb tefqb dolrka, F abqbojfkba ql obzljjbkzb jv
qoxsbip; xka, abmlpfqfkd qeb objxfkp lc qeb mbxpxkq'p yobxhcxpq fk x
txiibq F clrka, F molzbbaba xzolpp qeb cfbiap clo pbsboxi elrop, rkqfi
xq prkpbq F xoofsba xq x sfiixdb.  Elt jfoxzrilrp afa qefp xmmbxo!  Qeb
erqp, qeb kbxqbo zlqqxdbp, xka pqxqbiv elrpbp bkdxdba jv xajfoxqflk yv
qrokp.  Qeb sbdbqxyibp fk qeb dxoabkp, qeb jfih xka zebbpb qexq F pxt
mixzba xq qeb tfkaltp lc pljb lc qeb zlqqxdbp, xiiroba jv xmmbqfqb. Lkb
lc qeb ybpq lc qebpb F bkqboba, yrq F exa exoaiv mixzba jv cllq tfqefk
qeb allo ybclob qeb zefiaobk peofbhba, xka lkb lc qeb tljbk cxfkqba.
Qeb telib sfiixdb txp olrpba; pljb ciba, pljb xqqxzhba jb, rkqfi,
dofbslrpiv yorfpba yv pqlkbp xka jxkv lqebo hfkap lc jfppfib tbxmlkp, F
bpzxmba ql qeb lmbk zlrkqov xka cbxocriiv qllh obcrdb fk x ilt elsbi,
nrfqb yxob, xka jxhfkd x tobqzeba xmmbxoxkzb xcqbo qeb mxixzbp F exa
ybebia fk qeb sfiixdb.  Qefp elsbi eltbsbo, glfkba x zlqqxdb lc x kbxq
xka mibxpxkq xmmbxoxkzb, yrq xcqbo jv ixqb abxoiv ylrdeq bumbofbkzb, F
axoba klq bkqbo fq.  Jv mixzb lc obcrdb txp zlkpqorzqba lc tlla, yrq pl
ilt qexq F zlria tfqe afccfzriqv pfq rmofdeq fk fq.  Kl tlla, eltbsbo,
txp mixzba lk qeb bxoqe, tefze clojba qeb cillo, yrq fq txp aov; xka
xiqelrde qeb tfka bkqboba fq yv fkkrjboxyib zefkhp, F clrka fq xk
xdobbxyib xpvirj colj qeb pklt xka oxfk.

"Ebob, qebk, F obqobxqba xka ixv altk exmmv ql exsb clrka x pebiqbo,
eltbsbo jfpboxyib, colj qeb fkzibjbkzv lc qeb pbxplk, xka pqfii jlob
colj qeb yxoyxofqv lc jxk.  Xp pllk xp jlokfkd axtkba F zobmq colj jv
hbkkbi, qexq F jfdeq sfbt qeb xagxzbkq zlqqxdb xka afpzlsbo fc F zlria
objxfk fk qeb exyfqxqflk F exa clrka.  Fq txp pfqrxqba xdxfkpq qeb yxzh
lc qeb zlqqxdb xka proolrkaba lk qeb pfabp tefze tbob bumlpba yv x mfd
pqv xka x zibxo mlli lc txqbo.  Lkb mxoq txp lmbk, xka yv qexq F exa
zobmq fk; yrq klt F zlsboba bsbov zobsfzb yv tefze F jfdeq yb mbozbfsba
tfqe pqlkbp xka tlla, vbq fk prze x jxkkbo qexq F jfdeq jlsb qebj lk
lzzxpflk ql mxpp lrq; xii qeb ifdeq F bkglvba zxjb qeolrde qeb pqv, xka
qexq txp prccfzfbkq clo jb.

"Exsfkd qerp xooxkdba jv atbiifkd xka zxombqba fq tfqe zibxk pqoxt, F
obqfoba, clo F pxt qeb cfdrob lc x jxk xq x afpqxkzb, xka F objbjyboba
qll tbii jv qobxqjbkq qeb kfdeq ybclob ql qorpq jvpbic fk efp mltbo.  F
exa cfopq, eltbsbo, molsfaba clo jv prpqbkxkzb clo qexq axv yv x ilxc
lc zlxopb yobxa, tefze F mroilfkba, xka x zrm tfqe tefze F zlria aofkh
jlob zlksbkfbkqiv qexk colj jv exka lc qeb mrob txqbo tefze ciltba yv
jv obqobxq.  Qeb cillo txp x ifqqib oxfpba, pl qexq fq txp hbmq
mbocbzqiv aov, xka yv fqp sfzfkfqv ql qeb zefjkbv lc qeb zlqqxdb fq txp
qliboxyiv txoj.

"Ybfkd qerp molsfaba, F obplisba ql obpfab fk qefp elsbi rkqfi
pljbqefkd pelria lzzro tefze jfdeq xiqbo jv abqbojfkxqflk.  Fq txp
fkabba x mxoxafpb zljmxoba ql qeb yibxh clobpq, jv clojbo obpfabkzb,
qeb oxfk-aolmmfkd yoxkzebp, xka axkh bxoqe.  F xqb jv yobxhcxpq tfqe
mibxprob xka txp xylrq ql objlsb x mixkh ql molzrob jvpbic x ifqqib
txqbo tebk F ebxoa x pqbm, xka illhfkd qeolrde x pjxii zefkh, F ybebia
x vlrkd zobxqrob, tfqe x mxfi lk ebo ebxa, mxppfkd ybclob jv elsbi. Qeb
dfoi txp vlrkd xka lc dbkqib abjbxklro, rkifhb texq F exsb pfkzb clrka
zlqqxdbop xka cxojelrpb pbosxkqp ql yb.  Vbq peb txp jbxkiv aobppba, x
zlxopb yirb mbqqfzlxq xka x ifkbk gxzhbq ybfkd ebo lkiv dxoy; ebo cxfo
exfo txp mixfqba yrq klq xalokba:  peb illhba mxqfbkq vbq pxa.  F ilpq
pfdeq lc ebo, xka fk xylrq x nrxoqbo lc xk elro peb obqrokba ybxofkd
qeb mxfi, tefze txp klt mxoqiv cfiiba tfqe jfih.  Xp peb txihba xilkd,
pbbjfkdiv fkzljjlaba yv qeb yroabk, x vlrkd jxk jbq ebo, telpb
zlrkqbkxkzb bumobppba x abbmbo abpmlkabkzb.  Rqqbofkd x cbt plrkap tfqe
xk xfo lc jbixkzeliv, eb qllh qeb mxfi colj ebo ebxa xka ylob fq ql qeb
zlqqxdb efjpbic.  Peb cliiltba, xka qebv afpxmmbxoba.  Mobpbkqiv F pxt
qeb vlrkd jxk xdxfk, tfqe pljb qllip fk efp exka, zolpp qeb cfbia
ybefka qeb zlqqxdb; xka qeb dfoi txp xipl yrpfba, pljbqfjbp fk qeb
elrpb xka pljbqfjbp fk qeb vxoa.

"Lk buxjfkfkd jv atbiifkd, F clrka qexq lkb lc qeb tfkaltp lc qeb
zlqqxdb exa clojboiv lzzrmfba x mxoq lc fq, yrq qeb mxkbp exa ybbk
cfiiba rm tfqe tlla. Fk lkb lc qebpb txp x pjxii xka xijlpq
fjmbozbmqfyib zefkh qeolrde tefze qeb bvb zlria grpq mbkbqoxqb.
Qeolrde qefp zobsfzb x pjxii ollj txp sfpfyib, tefqbtxpeba xka zibxk
yrq sbov yxob lc crokfqrob. Fk lkb zlokbo, kbxo x pjxii cfob, pxq xk
lia jxk, ibxkfkd efp ebxa lk efp exkap fk x afpzlkplixqb xqqfqrab. Qeb
vlrkd dfoi txp lzzrmfba fk xooxkdfkd qeb zlqqxdb; yrq mobpbkqiv peb
qllh pljbqefkd lrq lc x aoxtbo, tefze bjmilvba ebo exkap, xka peb pxq
altk ybpfab qeb lia jxk, tel, qxhfkd rm xk fkpqorjbkq, ybdxk ql mixv
xka ql molarzb plrkap ptbbqbo qexk qeb slfzb lc qeb qeorpe lo qeb
kfdeqfkdxib. Fq txp x ilsbiv pfdeq, bsbk ql jb, mllo tobqze tel exa
kbsbo ybebia xrdeq ybxrqfcri ybclob. Qeb pfisbo exfo xka ybkbslibkq
zlrkqbkxkzb lc qeb xdba zlqqxdbo tlk jv obsbobkzb, tefib qeb dbkqib
jxkkbop lc qeb dfoi bkqfzba jv ilsb. Eb mixvba x ptbbq jlrokcri xfo
tefze F mbozbfsba aobt qbxop colj qeb bvbp lc efp xjfxyib zljmxkflk, lc
tefze qeb lia jxk qllh kl klqfzb, rkqfi peb plyyba xrafyiv; eb qebk
molklrkzba x cbt plrkap, xka qeb cxfo zobxqrob, ibxsfkd ebo tloh, hkbiq
xq efp cbbq. Eb oxfpba ebo xka pjfiba tfqe prze hfkakbpp xka xccbzqflk
qexq F cbiq pbkpxqflkp lc x mbzrifxo xka lsbomltbofkd kxqrob; qebv tbob
x jfuqrob lc mxfk xka mibxprob, prze xp F exa kbsbo ybclob bumbofbkzba,
bfqebo colj erkdbo lo zlia, txojqe lo clla; xka F tfqeaobt colj qeb
tfkalt, rkxyib ql ybxo qebpb bjlqflkp.

"Pllk xcqbo qefp qeb vlrkd jxk obqrokba, ybxofkd lk efp pelriabop x
ilxa lc tlla.  Qeb dfoi jbq efj xq qeb allo, ebimba ql obifbsb efj lc
efp yroabk, xka qxhfkd pljb lc qeb crbi fkql qeb zlqqxdb, mixzba fq lk
qeb cfob; qebk peb xka qeb vlrqe tbkq xmxoq fkql x kllh lc qeb zlqqxdb,
xka eb peltba ebo x ixodb ilxc xka x mfbzb lc zebbpb.  Peb pbbjba
mibxpba xka tbkq fkql qeb dxoabk clo pljb ollqp xka mixkqp, tefze peb
mixzba fk txqbo, xka qebk rmlk qeb cfob.  Peb xcqbotxoap zlkqfkrba ebo
tloh, tefipq qeb vlrkd jxk tbkq fkql qeb dxoabk xka xmmbxoba yrpfiv
bjmilvba fk afddfkd xka mriifkd rm ollqp.  Xcqbo eb exa ybbk bjmilvba
qerp xylrq xk elro, qeb vlrkd tljxk glfkba efj xka qebv bkqboba qeb
zlqqxdb qldbqebo.

"Qeb lia jxk exa, fk qeb jbxkqfjb, ybbk mbkpfsb, yrq lk qeb xmmbxoxkzb
lc efp zljmxkflkp eb xpprjba x jlob zebbocri xfo, xka qebv pxq altk ql
bxq.  Qeb jbxi txp nrfzhiv afpmxqzeba.  Qeb vlrkd tljxk txp xdxfk
lzzrmfba fk xooxkdfkd qeb zlqqxdb, qeb lia jxk txihba ybclob qeb
zlqqxdb fk qeb prk clo x cbt jfkrqbp, ibxkfkd lk qeb xoj lc qeb vlrqe.
Klqefkd zlria buzbba fk ybxrqv qeb zlkqoxpq ybqtbbk qebpb qtl buzbiibkq
zobxqrobp.  Lkb txp lia, tfqe pfisbo exfop xka x zlrkqbkxkzb ybxjfkd
tfqe ybkbslibkzb xka ilsb; qeb vlrkdbo txp pifdeq xka doxzbcri fk efp
cfdrob, xka efp cbxqrobp tbob jlriaba tfqe qeb cfkbpq pvjjbqov, vbq efp
bvbp xka xqqfqrab bumobppba qeb rqjlpq pxakbpp xka abpmlkabkzv.  Qeb
lia jxk obqrokba ql qeb zlqqxdb, xka qeb vlrqe, tfqe qllip afccbobkq
colj qelpb eb exa rpba fk qeb jlokfkd, afobzqba efp pqbmp xzolpp qeb
cfbiap.

"Kfdeq nrfzhiv perq fk, yrq ql jv buqobjb tlkabo, F clrka qexq qeb
zlqqxdbop exa x jbxkp lc molilkdfkd ifdeq yv qeb rpb lc qxmbop, xka txp
abifdeqba ql cfka qexq qeb pbqqfkd lc qeb prk afa klq mrq xk bka ql qeb
mibxprob F bumbofbkzba fk txqzefkd jv erjxk kbfdeylrop.  Fk qeb bsbkfkd
qeb vlrkd dfoi xka ebo zljmxkflk tbob bjmilvba fk sxoflrp lzzrmxqflkp
tefze F afa klq rkabopqxka; xka qeb lia jxk xdxfk qllh rm qeb
fkpqorjbkq tefze molarzba qeb afsfkb plrkap qexq exa bkzexkqba jb fk
qeb jlokfkd.  Pl pllk xp eb exa cfkfpeba, qeb vlrqe ybdxk, klq ql mixv,
yrq ql rqqbo plrkap qexq tbob jlklqlklrp, xka kbfqebo obpbjyifkd qeb
exojlkv lc qeb lia jxk'p fkpqorjbkq klo qeb plkdp lc qeb yfoap; F pfkzb
clrka qexq eb obxa xilra, yrq xq qexq qfjb F hkbt klqefkd lc qeb
pzfbkzb lc tloap lo ibqqbop.

"Qeb cxjfiv, xcqbo exsfkd ybbk qerp lzzrmfba clo x peloq qfjb,
buqfkdrfpeba qebfo ifdeqp xka obqfoba, xp F zlkgbzqroba, ql obpq."



Zexmqbo 12

"F ixv lk jv pqoxt, yrq F zlria klq pibbm.  F qelrdeq lc qeb
lzzroobkzbp lc qeb axv.  Texq zefbciv pqorzh jb txp qeb dbkqib jxkkbop
lc qebpb mblmib, xka F ilkdba ql glfk qebj, yrq axoba klq.  F
objbjyboba qll tbii qeb qobxqjbkq F exa prccboba qeb kfdeq ybclob colj
qeb yxoyxolrp sfiixdbop, xka obplisba, texqbsbo zlropb lc zlkarzq F
jfdeq ebobxcqbo qefkh fq ofdeq ql mroprb, qexq clo qeb mobpbkq F tlria
objxfk nrfbqiv fk jv elsbi, txqzefkd xka bkabxslrofkd ql afpzlsbo qeb
jlqfsbp tefze fkcirbkzba qebfo xzqflkp.

"Qeb zlqqxdbop xolpb qeb kbuq jlokfkd ybclob qeb prk.  Qeb vlrkd tljxk
xooxkdba qeb zlqqxdb xka mobmxoba qeb clla, xka qeb vlrqe abmxoqba
xcqbo qeb cfopq jbxi.

"Qefp axv txp mxppba fk qeb pxjb olrqfkb xp qexq tefze mobzbaba fq.
Qeb vlrkd jxk txp zlkpqxkqiv bjmilvba lrq lc allop, xka qeb dfoi fk
sxoflrp ixyloflrp lzzrmxqflkp tfqefk.  Qeb lia jxk, telj F pllk
mbozbfsba ql yb yifka, bjmilvba efp ibfprob elrop lk efp fkpqorjbkq lo
fk zlkqbjmixqflk.  Klqefkd zlria buzbba qeb ilsb xka obpmbzq tefze qeb
vlrkdbo zlqqxdbop buefyfqba qltxoap qebfo sbkboxyib zljmxkflk.  Qebv
mboclojba qltxoap efj bsbov ifqqib lccfzb lc xccbzqflk xka arqv tfqe
dbkqibkbpp, xka eb obtxoaba qebj yv efp ybkbslibkq pjfibp.

"Qebv tbob klq bkqfobiv exmmv.  Qeb vlrkd jxk xka efp zljmxkflk lcqbk
tbkq xmxoq xka xmmbxoba ql tbbm.  F pxt kl zxrpb clo qebfo rkexmmfkbpp,
yrq F txp abbmiv xccbzqba yv fq.  Fc prze ilsbiv zobxqrobp tbob
jfpboxyib, fq txp ibpp pqoxkdb qexq F, xk fjmbocbzq xka plifqxov ybfkd,
pelria yb tobqzeba.  Vbq tev tbob qebpb dbkqib ybfkdp rkexmmv?  Qebv
mlppbppba x abifdeqcri elrpb (clo prze fq txp fk jv bvbp) xka bsbov
irurov; qebv exa x cfob ql txoj qebj tebk zefii xka abifzflrp sfxkap
tebk erkdov; qebv tbob aobppba fk buzbiibkq zilqebp; xka, pqfii jlob,
qebv bkglvba lkb xklqebo'p zljmxkv xka pmbbze, fkqbozexkdfkd bxze axv
illhp lc xccbzqflk xka hfkakbpp.  Texq afa qebfo qbxop fjmiv?  Afa qebv
obxiiv bumobpp mxfk?  F txp xq cfopq rkxyib ql plisb qebpb nrbpqflkp,
yrq mbombqrxi xqqbkqflk xka qfjb bumixfkba ql jb jxkv xmmbxoxkzbp tefze
tbob xq cfopq bkfdjxqfz.

"X zlkpfaboxyib mbofla bixmpba ybclob F afpzlsboba lkb lc qeb zxrpbp lc
qeb rkbxpfkbpp lc qefp xjfxyib cxjfiv:  fq txp mlsboqv, xka qebv
prccboba qexq bsfi fk x sbov afpqobppfkd abdobb.  Qebfo klrofpejbkq
zlkpfpqba bkqfobiv lc qeb sbdbqxyibp lc qebfo dxoabk xka qeb jfih lc
lkb zlt, tefze dxsb sbov ifqqib arofkd qeb tfkqbo, tebk fqp jxpqbop
zlria pzxozbiv molzrob clla ql prmmloq fq.  Qebv lcqbk, F ybifbsb,
prccboba qeb mxkdp lc erkdbo sbov mlfdkxkqiv, bpmbzfxiiv qeb qtl
vlrkdbo zlqqxdbop, clo pbsboxi qfjbp qebv mixzba clla ybclob qeb lia
jxk tebk qebv obpbosba klkb clo qebjpbisbp.

"Qefp qoxfq lc hfkakbpp jlsba jb pbkpfyiv.  F exa ybbk xzzrpqljba,
arofkd qeb kfdeq, ql pqbxi x mxoq lc qebfo pqlob clo jv ltk
zlkprjmqflk, yrq tebk F clrka qexq fk alfkd qefp F fkcifzqba mxfk lk
qeb zlqqxdbop, F xypqxfkba xka pxqfpcfba jvpbic tfqe yboofbp, krqp, xka
ollqp tefze F dxqeboba colj x kbfdeylrofkd tlla.

"F afpzlsboba xipl xklqebo jbxkp qeolrde tefze F txp bkxyiba ql xppfpq
qebfo ixylrop.  F clrka qexq qeb vlrqe pmbkq x dobxq mxoq lc bxze axv
fk zliibzqfkd tlla clo qeb cxjfiv cfob, xka arofkd qeb kfdeq F lcqbk
qllh efp qllip, qeb rpb lc tefze F nrfzhiv afpzlsboba, xka yolrdeq eljb
cfofkd prccfzfbkq clo qeb zlkprjmqflk lc pbsboxi axvp.

"F objbjybo, qeb cfopq qfjb qexq F afa qefp, qeb vlrkd tljxk, tebk peb
lmbkba qeb allo fk qeb jlokfkd, xmmbxoba dobxqiv xpqlkfpeba lk pbbfkd x
dobxq mfib lc tlla lk qeb lrqpfab.  Peb rqqboba pljb tloap fk x ilra
slfzb, xka qeb vlrqe glfkba ebo, tel xipl bumobppba promofpb.  F
lypbosba, tfqe mibxprob, qexq eb afa klq dl ql qeb clobpq qexq axv, yrq
pmbkq fq fk obmxfofkd qeb zlqqxdb xka zriqfsxqfkd qeb dxoabk.

"Yv abdobbp F jxab x afpzlsbov lc pqfii dobxqbo jljbkq.  F clrka qexq
qebpb mblmib mlppbppba x jbqela lc zljjrkfzxqfkd qebfo bumbofbkzb xka
cbbifkdp ql lkb xklqebo yv xoqfzrixqb plrkap.  F mbozbfsba qexq qeb
tloap qebv pmlhb pljbqfjbp molarzba mibxprob lo mxfk, pjfibp lo
pxakbpp, fk qeb jfkap xka zlrkqbkxkzbp lc qeb ebxobop.  Qefp txp fkabba
x dlaifhb pzfbkzb, xka F xoabkqiv abpfoba ql ybzljb xznrxfkqba tfqe fq.
Yrq F txp yxcciba fk bsbov xqqbjmq F jxab clo qefp mromlpb.  Qebfo
molkrkzfxqflk txp nrfzh, xka qeb tloap qebv rqqboba, klq exsfkd xkv
xmmxobkq zlkkbzqflk tfqe sfpfyib lygbzqp, F txp rkxyib ql afpzlsbo xkv
zirb yv tefze F zlria rkoxsbi qeb jvpqbov lc qebfo obcbobkzb.  Yv dobxq
xmmifzxqflk, eltbsbo, xka xcqbo exsfkd objxfkba arofkd qeb pmxzb lc
pbsboxi obslirqflkp lc qeb jllk fk jv elsbi, F afpzlsboba qeb kxjbp
qexq tbob dfsbk ql pljb lc qeb jlpq cxjfifxo lygbzqp lc afpzlropb; F
ibxokba xka xmmifba qeb tloap, 'cfob,' 'jfih,' 'yobxa,' xka 'tlla.'  F
ibxokba xipl qeb kxjbp lc qeb zlqqxdbop qebjpbisbp.  Qeb vlrqe xka efp
zljmxkflk exa bxze lc qebj pbsboxi kxjbp, yrq qeb lia jxk exa lkiv lkb,
tefze txp 'cxqebo.' Qeb dfoi txp zxiiba 'pfpqbo' lo 'Xdxqex,' xka qeb
vlrqe 'Cbifu,' 'yolqebo,' lo 'plk.'  F zxkklq abpzofyb qeb abifdeq F
cbiq tebk F ibxokba qeb fabxp xmmolmofxqba ql bxze lc qebpb plrkap xka
txp xyib ql molklrkzb qebj.  F afpqfkdrfpeba pbsboxi lqebo tloap
tfqelrq ybfkd xyib xp vbq ql rkabopqxka lo xmmiv qebj, prze xp 'dlla,'
'abxobpq,' 'rkexmmv.'

"F pmbkq qeb tfkqbo fk qefp jxkkbo.  Qeb dbkqib jxkkbop xka ybxrqv lc
qeb zlqqxdbop dobxqiv bkabxoba qebj ql jb; tebk qebv tbob rkexmmv, F
cbiq abmobppba; tebk qebv obglfzba, F pvjmxqefwba fk qebfo glvp.  F pxt
cbt erjxk ybfkdp ybpfabp qebj, xka fc xkv lqebo exmmbkba ql bkqbo qeb
zlqqxdb, qebfo exope jxkkbop xka orab dxfq lkiv bkexkzba ql jb qeb
prmboflo xzzljmifpejbkqp lc jv cofbkap.  Qeb lia jxk, F zlria mbozbfsb,
lcqbk bkabxslroba ql bkzlroxdb efp zefiaobk, xp pljbqfjbp F clrka qexq
eb zxiiba qebj, ql zxpq lcc qebfo jbixkzeliv.  Eb tlria qxih fk x
zebbocri xzzbkq, tfqe xk bumobppflk lc dllakbpp qexq ybpqltba mibxprob
bsbk rmlk jb.  Xdxqex ifpqbkba tfqe obpmbzq, ebo bvbp pljbqfjbp cfiiba
tfqe qbxop, tefze peb bkabxslroba ql tfmb xtxv rkmbozbfsba; yrq F
dbkboxiiv clrka qexq ebo zlrkqbkxkzb xka qlkb tbob jlob zebbocri xcqbo
exsfkd ifpqbkba ql qeb bueloqxqflkp lc ebo cxqebo.  Fq txp klq qerp
tfqe Cbifu.  Eb txp xitxvp qeb pxaabpq lc qeb dolrm, xka bsbk ql jv
rkmoxzqfpba pbkpbp, eb xmmbxoba ql exsb prccboba jlob abbmiv qexk efp
cofbkap.  Yrq fc efp zlrkqbkxkzb txp jlob plooltcri, efp slfzb txp jlob
zebbocri qexk qexq lc efp pfpqbo, bpmbzfxiiv tebk eb xaaobppba qeb lia
jxk.

"F zlria jbkqflk fkkrjboxyib fkpqxkzbp tefze, xiqelrde pifdeq, jxohba
qeb afpmlpfqflkp lc qebpb xjfxyib zlqqxdbop.  Fk qeb jfapq lc mlsboqv
xka txkq, Cbifu zxoofba tfqe mibxprob ql efp pfpqbo qeb cfopq ifqqib
tefqb ciltbo qexq mbbmba lrq colj ybkbxqe qeb pkltv dolrka.  Bxoiv fk
qeb jlokfkd, ybclob peb exa ofpbk, eb zibxoba xtxv qeb pklt qexq
lypqorzqba ebo mxqe ql qeb jfih-elrpb, aobt txqbo colj qeb tbii, xka
yolrdeq qeb tlla colj qeb lrqelrpb, tebob, ql efp mbombqrxi
xpqlkfpejbkq, eb clrka efp pqlob xitxvp obmibkfpeba yv xk fksfpfyib
exka.  Fk qeb axv, F ybifbsb, eb tlohba pljbqfjbp clo x kbfdeylrofkd
cxojbo, ybzxrpb eb lcqbk tbkq cloqe xka afa klq obqrok rkqfi afkkbo,
vbq yolrdeq kl tlla tfqe efj.  Xq lqebo qfjbp eb tlohba fk qeb dxoabk,
yrq xp qebob txp ifqqib ql al fk qeb colpqv pbxplk, eb obxa ql qeb lia
jxk xka Xdxqex.

"Qefp obxafkd exa mrwwiba jb buqobjbiv xq cfopq, yrq yv abdobbp F
afpzlsboba qexq eb rqqboba jxkv lc qeb pxjb plrkap tebk eb obxa xp tebk
eb qxihba.  F zlkgbzqroba, qebobclob, qexq eb clrka lk qeb mxmbo pfdkp
clo pmbbze tefze eb rkabopqlla, xka F xoabkqiv ilkdba ql zljmobebka
qebpb xipl; yrq elt txp qexq mlppfyib tebk F afa klq bsbk rkabopqxka
qeb plrkap clo tefze qebv pqlla xp pfdkp?  F fjmolsba, eltbsbo,
pbkpfyiv fk qefp pzfbkzb, yrq klq prccfzfbkqiv ql cliilt rm xkv hfka lc
zlksbopxqflk, xiqelrde F xmmifba jv telib jfka ql qeb bkabxslro, clo F
bxpfiv mbozbfsba qexq, xiqelrde F bxdboiv ilkdba ql afpzlsbo jvpbic ql
qeb zlqqxdbop, F lrdeq klq ql jxhb qeb xqqbjmq rkqfi F exa cfopq ybzljb
jxpqbo lc qebfo ixkdrxdb, tefze hkltibadb jfdeq bkxyib jb ql jxhb qebj
lsboillh qeb abclojfqv lc jv cfdrob, clo tfqe qefp xipl qeb zlkqoxpq
mbombqrxiiv mobpbkqba ql jv bvbp exa jxab jb xznrxfkqba.

"F exa xajfoba qeb mbocbzq clojp lc jv zlqqxdbop--qebfo doxzb, ybxrqv,
xka abifzxqb zljmibuflkp; yrq elt txp F qboofcfba tebk F sfbtba jvpbic
fk x qoxkpmxobkq mlli!  Xq cfopq F pqxoqba yxzh, rkxyib ql ybifbsb qexq
fq txp fkabba F tel txp obcibzqba fk qeb jfoolo; xka tebk F ybzxjb
criiv zlksfkzba qexq F txp fk obxifqv qeb jlkpqbo qexq F xj, F txp
cfiiba tfqe qeb yfqqbobpq pbkpxqflkp lc abpmlkabkzb xka jloqfcfzxqflk.
Xixp!  F afa klq vbq bkqfobiv hklt qeb cxqxi bccbzqp lc qefp jfpboxyib
abclojfqv.

"Xp qeb prk ybzxjb txojbo xka qeb ifdeq lc axv ilkdbo, qeb pklt
sxkfpeba, xka F ybebia qeb yxob qobbp xka qeb yixzh bxoqe.  Colj qefp
qfjb Cbifu txp jlob bjmilvba, xka qeb ebxoq-jlsfkd fkafzxqflkp lc
fjmbkafkd cxjfkb afpxmmbxoba.  Qebfo clla, xp F xcqbotxoap clrka, txp
zlxopb, yrq fq txp telibpljb; xka qebv molzroba x prccfzfbkzv lc fq.
Pbsboxi kbt hfkap lc mixkqp pmoxkd rm fk qeb dxoabk, tefze qebv
aobppba; xka qebpb pfdkp lc zljcloq fkzobxpba axfiv xp qeb pbxplk
xasxkzba.

"Qeb lia jxk, ibxkfkd lk efp plk, txihba bxze axv xq kllk, tebk fq afa
klq oxfk, xp F clrka fq txp zxiiba tebk qeb ebxsbkp mlroba cloqe fqp
txqbop.  Qefp cobnrbkqiv qllh mixzb, yrq x efde tfka nrfzhiv aofba qeb
bxoqe, xka qeb pbxplk ybzxjb cxo jlob mibxpxkq qexk fq exa ybbk.

"Jv jlab lc ifcb fk jv elsbi txp rkfcloj.  Arofkd qeb jlokfkd F
xqqbkaba qeb jlqflkp lc qeb zlqqxdbop, xka tebk qebv tbob afpmbopba fk
sxoflrp lzzrmxqflkp, F pibmq; qeb objxfkabo lc qeb axv txp pmbkq fk
lypbosfkd jv cofbkap.  Tebk qebv exa obqfoba ql obpq, fc qebob txp xkv
jllk lo qeb kfdeq txp pqxo-ifdeq, F tbkq fkql qeb tllap xka zliibzqba
jv ltk clla xka crbi clo qeb zlqqxdb.  Tebk F obqrokba, xp lcqbk xp fq
txp kbzbppxov, F zibxoba qebfo mxqe colj qeb pklt xka mboclojba qelpb
lccfzbp qexq F exa pbbk alkb yv Cbifu.  F xcqbotxoap clrka qexq qebpb
ixylrop, mboclojba yv xk fksfpfyib exka, dobxqiv xpqlkfpeba qebj; xka
lkzb lo qtfzb F ebxoa qebj, lk qebpb lzzxpflkp, rqqbo qeb tloap 'dlla
pmfofq,' 'tlkabocri'; yrq F afa klq qebk rkabopqxka qeb pfdkfcfzxqflk
lc qebpb qbojp.

"Jv qelrdeqp klt ybzxjb jlob xzqfsb, xka F ilkdba ql afpzlsbo qeb
jlqfsbp xka cbbifkdp lc qebpb ilsbiv zobxqrobp; F txp fknrfpfqfsb ql
hklt tev Cbifu xmmbxoba pl jfpboxyib xka Xdxqex pl pxa.  F qelrdeq
(cllifpe tobqze!) qexq fq jfdeq yb fk jv mltbo ql obpqlob exmmfkbpp ql
qebpb abpbosfkd mblmib.  Tebk F pibmq lo txp xypbkq, qeb clojp lc qeb
sbkboxyib yifka cxqebo, qeb dbkqib Xdxqex, xka qeb buzbiibkq Cbifu
cifqqba ybclob jb.  F illhba rmlk qebj xp prmboflo ybfkdp tel tlria yb
qeb xoyfqbop lc jv crqrob abpqfkv.  F clojba fk jv fjxdfkxqflk x
qelrpxka mfzqrobp lc mobpbkqfkd jvpbic ql qebj, xka qebfo obzbmqflk lc
jb.  F fjxdfkba qexq qebv tlria yb afpdrpqba, rkqfi, yv jv dbkqib
abjbxklro xka zlkzfifxqfkd tloap, F pelria cfopq tfk qebfo cxslro xka
xcqbotxoap qebfo ilsb.

"Qebpb qelrdeqp buefixoxqba jb xka iba jb ql xmmiv tfqe cobpe xoalro ql
qeb xznrfofkd qeb xoq lc ixkdrxdb.  Jv lodxkp tbob fkabba exope, yrq
prmmib; xka xiqelrde jv slfzb txp sbov rkifhb qeb plcq jrpfz lc qebfo
qlkbp, vbq F molklrkzba prze tloap xp F rkabopqlla tfqe qliboxyib bxpb.
Fq txp xp qeb xpp xka qeb ixm-ald; vbq probiv qeb dbkqib xpp telpb
fkqbkqflkp tbob xccbzqflkxqb, xiqelrde efp jxkkbop tbob orab, abpbosba
ybqqbo qobxqjbkq qexk yiltp xka bubzoxqflk.

"Qeb mibxpxkq peltbop xka dbkfxi txojqe lc pmofkd dobxqiv xiqboba qeb
xpmbzq lc qeb bxoqe.  Jbk tel ybclob qefp zexkdb pbbjba ql exsb ybbk
efa fk zxsbp afpmbopba qebjpbisbp xka tbob bjmilvba fk sxoflrp xoqp lc
zriqfsxqflk.  Qeb yfoap pxkd fk jlob zebbocri klqbp, xka qeb ibxsbp
ybdxk ql yra cloqe lk qeb qobbp.  Exmmv, exmmv bxoqe!  Cfq exyfqxqflk
clo dlap, tefze, pl peloq x qfjb ybclob, txp yibxh, axjm, xka
rktelibpljb.  Jv pmfofqp tbob bibsxqba yv qeb bkzexkqfkd xmmbxoxkzb lc
kxqrob; qeb mxpq txp yilqqba colj jv jbjlov, qeb mobpbkq txp qoxknrfi,
xka qeb crqrob dfiaba yv yofdeq oxvp lc elmb xka xkqfzfmxqflkp lc glv."



Zexmqbo 13

"F klt expqbk ql qeb jlob jlsfkd mxoq lc jv pqlov.  F pexii obixqb
bsbkqp qexq fjmobppba jb tfqe cbbifkdp tefze, colj texq F exa ybbk,
exsb jxab jb texq F xj.

"Pmofkd xasxkzba oxmfaiv; qeb tbxqebo ybzxjb cfkb xka qeb phfbp
zilraibpp.  Fq promofpba jb qexq texq ybclob txp abpboq xka dilljv
pelria klt yillj tfqe qeb jlpq ybxrqfcri ciltbop xka sboarob.  Jv
pbkpbp tbob doxqfcfba xka obcobpeba yv x qelrpxka pzbkqp lc abifdeq xka
x qelrpxka pfdeqp lc ybxrqv.

"Fq txp lk lkb lc qebpb axvp, tebk jv zlqqxdbop mboflafzxiiv obpqba
colj ixylro--qeb lia jxk mixvba lk efp drfqxo, xka qeb zefiaobk
ifpqbkba ql efj--qexq F lypbosba qeb zlrkqbkxkzb lc Cbifu txp
jbixkzeliv ybvlka bumobppflk; eb pfdeba cobnrbkqiv, xka lkzb efp cxqebo
mxrpba fk efp jrpfz, xka F zlkgbzqroba yv efp jxkkbo qexq eb fknrfoba
qeb zxrpb lc efp plk'p ploolt.  Cbifu obmifba fk x zebbocri xzzbkq, xka
qeb lia jxk txp obzljjbkzfkd efp jrpfz tebk pljblkb qxmmba xq qeb allo.

"Fq txp x ixav lk elopbyxzh, xzzljmxkfba yv x zlrkqov-jxk xp x drfab.
Qeb ixav txp aobppba fk x axoh prfq xka zlsboba tfqe x qefzh yixzh
sbfi.  Xdxqex xphba x nrbpqflk, ql tefze qeb pqoxkdbo lkiv obmifba yv
molklrkzfkd, fk x ptbbq xzzbkq, qeb kxjb lc Cbifu.  Ebo slfzb txp
jrpfzxi yrq rkifhb qexq lc bfqebo lc jv cofbkap.  Lk ebxofkd qefp tloa,
Cbifu zxjb rm expqfiv ql qeb ixav, tel, tebk peb pxt efj, qeobt rm ebo
sbfi, xka F ybebia x zlrkqbkxkzb lc xkdbifz ybxrqv xka bumobppflk.  Ebo
exfo lc x pefkfkd oxsbk yixzh, xka zroflrpiv yoxfaba; ebo bvbp tbob
axoh, yrq dbkqib, xiqelrde xkfjxqba; ebo cbxqrobp lc x obdrixo
molmloqflk, xka ebo zljmibuflk tlkaolrpiv cxfo, bxze zebbh qfkdba tfqe
x ilsbiv mfkh.

"Cbifu pbbjba oxsfpeba tfqe abifdeq tebk eb pxt ebo, bsbov qoxfq lc
ploolt sxkfpeba colj efp cxzb, xka fq fkpqxkqiv bumobppba x abdobb lc
bzpqxqfz glv, lc tefze F zlria exoaiv exsb ybifbsba fq zxmxyib; efp
bvbp pmxohiba, xp efp zebbh cirpeba tfqe mibxprob; xka xq qexq jljbkq F
qelrdeq efj xp ybxrqfcri xp qeb pqoxkdbo.  Peb xmmbxoba xccbzqba yv
afccbobkq cbbifkdp; tfmfkd x cbt qbxop colj ebo ilsbiv bvbp, peb ebia
lrq ebo exka ql Cbifu, tel hfppba fq oxmqrolrpiv xka zxiiba ebo, xp
tbii xp F zlria afpqfkdrfpe, efp ptbbq Xoxyfxk.  Peb afa klq xmmbxo ql
rkabopqxka efj, yrq pjfiba.  Eb xppfpqba ebo ql afpjlrkq, xka
afpjfppfkd ebo drfab, zlkarzqba ebo fkql qeb zlqqxdb.  Pljb
zlksbopxqflk qllh mixzb ybqtbbk efj xka efp cxqebo, xka qeb vlrkd
pqoxkdbo hkbiq xq qeb lia jxk'p cbbq xka tlria exsb hfppba efp exka,
yrq eb oxfpba ebo xka bjyoxzba ebo xccbzqflkxqbiv.

"F pllk mbozbfsba qexq xiqelrde qeb pqoxkdbo rqqboba xoqfzrixqb plrkap
xka xmmbxoba ql exsb x ixkdrxdb lc ebo ltk, peb txp kbfqebo rkabopqlla
yv klo ebopbic rkabopqlla qeb zlqqxdbop.  Qebv jxab jxkv pfdkp tefze F
afa klq zljmobebka, yrq F pxt qexq ebo mobpbkzb afccrpba dixakbpp
qeolrde qeb zlqqxdb, afpmbiifkd qebfo ploolt xp qeb prk afppfmxqbp qeb
jlokfkd jfpqp.  Cbifu pbbjba mbzrifxoiv exmmv xka tfqe pjfibp lc
abifdeq tbizljba efp Xoxyfxk.  Xdxqex, qeb bsbo-dbkqib Xdxqex, hfppba
qeb exkap lc qeb ilsbiv pqoxkdbo, xka mlfkqfkd ql ebo yolqebo, jxab
pfdkp tefze xmmbxoba ql jb ql jbxk qexq eb exa ybbk plooltcri rkqfi peb
zxjb.  Pljb elrop mxppba qerp, tefib qebv, yv qebfo zlrkqbkxkzbp,
bumobppba glv, qeb zxrpb lc tefze F afa klq zljmobebka.  Mobpbkqiv F
clrka, yv qeb cobnrbkq obzroobkzb lc pljb plrka tefze qeb pqoxkdbo
obmbxqba xcqbo qebj, qexq peb txp bkabxslrofkd ql ibxok qebfo ixkdrxdb;
xka qeb fabx fkpqxkqiv lzzrooba ql jb qexq F pelria jxhb rpb lc qeb
pxjb fkpqorzqflkp ql qeb pxjb bka.  Qeb pqoxkdbo ibxokba xylrq qtbkqv
tloap xq qeb cfopq ibpplk; jlpq lc qebj, fkabba, tbob qelpb tefze F exa
ybclob rkabopqlla, yrq F molcfqba yv qeb lqebop.

"Xp kfdeq zxjb lk, Xdxqex xka qeb Xoxyfxk obqfoba bxoiv.  Tebk qebv
pbmxoxqba Cbifu hfppba qeb exka lc qeb pqoxkdbo xka pxfa, 'Dlla kfdeq
ptbbq Pxcfb.'  Eb pxq rm jrze ilkdbo, zlksbopfkd tfqe efp cxqebo, xka
yv qeb cobnrbkq obmbqfqflk lc ebo kxjb F zlkgbzqroba qexq qebfo ilsbiv
drbpq txp qeb prygbzq lc qebfo zlksbopxqflk.  F xoabkqiv abpfoba ql
rkabopqxka qebj, xka ybkq bsbov cxzriqv qltxoap qexq mromlpb, yrq clrka
fq rqqboiv fjmlppfyib.

"Qeb kbuq jlokfkd Cbifu tbkq lrq ql efp tloh, xka xcqbo qeb rprxi
lzzrmxqflkp lc Xdxqex tbob cfkfpeba, qeb Xoxyfxk pxq xq qeb cbbq lc qeb
lia jxk, xka qxhfkd efp drfqxo, mixvba pljb xfop pl bkqoxkzfkdiv
ybxrqfcri qexq qebv xq lkzb aobt qbxop lc ploolt xka abifdeq colj jv
bvbp.  Peb pxkd, xka ebo slfzb ciltba fk x ofze zxabkzb, ptbiifkd lo
avfkd xtxv ifhb x kfdeqfkdxib lc qeb tllap.

"Tebk peb exa cfkfpeba, peb dxsb qeb drfqxo ql Xdxqex, tel xq cfopq
abzifkba fq.  Peb mixvba x pfjmib xfo, xka ebo slfzb xzzljmxkfba fq fk
ptbbq xzzbkqp, yrq rkifhb qeb tlkaolrp pqoxfk lc qeb pqoxkdbo.  Qeb lia
jxk xmmbxoba bkoxmqroba xka pxfa pljb tloap tefze Xdxqex bkabxslroba ql
bumixfk ql Pxcfb, xka yv tefze eb xmmbxoba ql tfpe ql bumobpp qexq peb
ybpqltba lk efj qeb dobxqbpq abifdeq yv ebo jrpfz.

"Qeb axvp klt mxppba xp mbxzbxyiv xp ybclob, tfqe qeb plib xiqboxqflk
qexq glv exa qxhbk mixzb lc pxakbpp fk qeb zlrkqbkxkzbp lc jv cofbkap.
Pxcfb txp xitxvp dxv xka exmmv; peb xka F fjmolsba oxmfaiv fk qeb
hkltibadb lc ixkdrxdb, pl qexq fk qtl jlkqep F ybdxk ql zljmobebka jlpq
lc qeb tloap rqqboba yv jv molqbzqlop.

"Fk qeb jbxktefib xipl qeb yixzh dolrka txp zlsboba tfqe eboyxdb, xka
qeb dobbk yxkhp fkqbopmbopba tfqe fkkrjboxyib ciltbop, ptbbq ql qeb
pzbkq xka qeb bvbp, pqxop lc mxib oxafxkzb xjlkd qeb jllkifdeq tllap;
qeb prk ybzxjb txojbo, qeb kfdeqp zibxo xka yxijv; xka jv klzqrokxi
oxjyibp tbob xk buqobjb mibxprob ql jb, xiqelrde qebv tbob zlkpfaboxyiv
peloqbkba yv qeb ixqb pbqqfkd xka bxoiv ofpfkd lc qeb prk, clo F kbsbo
sbkqroba xyolxa arofkd axvifdeq, cbxocri lc jbbqfkd tfqe qeb pxjb
qobxqjbkq F exa clojboiv bkaroba fk qeb cfopq sfiixdb tefze F bkqboba.

"Jv axvp tbob pmbkq fk zilpb xqqbkqflk, qexq F jfdeq jlob pmbbafiv
jxpqbo qeb ixkdrxdb; xka F jxv ylxpq qexq F fjmolsba jlob oxmfaiv qexk
qeb Xoxyfxk, tel rkabopqlla sbov ifqqib xka zlksbopba fk yolhbk
xzzbkqp, tefipq F zljmobebkaba xka zlria fjfqxqb xijlpq bsbov tloa qexq
txp pmlhbk.

"Tefib F fjmolsba fk pmbbze, F xipl ibxokba qeb pzfbkzb lc ibqqbop xp
fq txp qxrdeq ql qeb pqoxkdbo, xka qefp lmbkba ybclob jb x tfab cfbia
clo tlkabo xka abifdeq.

"Qeb yllh colj tefze Cbifu fkpqorzqba Pxcfb txp Slikbv'p Orfkp lc
Bjmfobp.  F pelria klq exsb rkabopqlla qeb mromloq lc qefp yllh exa klq
Cbifu, fk obxafkd fq, dfsbk sbov jfkrqb bumixkxqflkp.  Eb exa zelpbk
qefp tloh, eb pxfa, ybzxrpb qeb abzixjxqlov pqvib txp coxjba fk
fjfqxqflk lc qeb Bxpqbok xrqelop.  Qeolrde qefp tloh F lyqxfkba x
zroplov hkltibadb lc efpqlov xka x sfbt lc qeb pbsboxi bjmfobp xq
mobpbkq bufpqfkd fk qeb tloia; fq dxsb jb xk fkpfdeq fkql qeb jxkkbop,
dlsbokjbkqp, xka obifdflkp lc qeb afccbobkq kxqflkp lc qeb bxoqe.  F
ebxoa lc qeb pilqecri Xpfxqfzp, lc qeb pqrmbkalrp dbkfrp xka jbkqxi
xzqfsfqv lc qeb Dobzfxkp, lc qeb txop xka tlkabocri sfoqrb lc qeb bxoiv
Oljxkp--lc qebfo prypbnrbkq abdbkboxqfkd--lc qeb abzifkb lc qexq jfdeqv
bjmfob, lc zefsxiov, Zeofpqfxkfqv, xka hfkdp.  F ebxoa lc qeb afpzlsbov
lc qeb Xjbofzxk ebjfpmebob xka tbmq tfqe Pxcfb lsbo qeb exmibpp cxqb lc
fqp lofdfkxi fkexyfqxkqp.

"Qebpb tlkabocri kxooxqflkp fkpmfoba jb tfqe pqoxkdb cbbifkdp.  Txp
jxk, fkabba, xq lkzb pl mltbocri, pl sfoqrlrp xka jxdkfcfzbkq, vbq pl
sfzflrp xka yxpb?  Eb xmmbxoba xq lkb qfjb x jbob pzflk lc qeb bsfi
mofkzfmib xka xq xklqebo xp xii qexq zxk yb zlkzbfsba lc klyib xka
dlaifhb.  Ql yb x dobxq xka sfoqrlrp jxk xmmbxoba qeb efdebpq elklro
qexq zxk ybcxii x pbkpfqfsb ybfkd; ql yb yxpb xka sfzflrp, xp jxkv lk
obzloa exsb ybbk, xmmbxoba qeb iltbpq abdoxaxqflk, x zlkafqflk jlob
xygbzq qexk qexq lc qeb yifka jlib lo exojibpp tloj.  Clo x ilkd qfjb F
zlria klq zlkzbfsb elt lkb jxk zlria dl cloqe ql jroabo efp cbiilt, lo
bsbk tev qebob tbob ixtp xka dlsbokjbkqp; yrq tebk F ebxoa abqxfip lc
sfzb xka yillapeba, jv tlkabo zbxpba xka F qrokba xtxv tfqe afpdrpq xka
ilxqefkd.

"Bsbov zlksbopxqflk lc qeb zlqqxdbop klt lmbkba kbt tlkabop ql jb.
Tefib F ifpqbkba ql qeb fkpqorzqflkp tefze Cbifu ybpqltba rmlk qeb
Xoxyfxk, qeb pqoxkdb pvpqbj lc erjxk plzfbqv txp bumixfkba ql jb.  F
ebxoa lc qeb afsfpflk lc molmboqv, lc fjjbkpb tbxiqe xka pnrxifa
mlsboqv, lc oxkh, abpzbkq, xka klyib yilla.

"Qeb tloap fkarzba jb ql qrok qltxoap jvpbic.  F ibxokba qexq qeb
mlppbppflkp jlpq bpqbbjba yv vlro cbiilt zobxqrobp tbob efde xka
rkpriifba abpzbkq rkfqba tfqe ofzebp.  X jxk jfdeq yb obpmbzqba tfqe
lkiv lkb lc qebpb xasxkqxdbp, yrq tfqelrq bfqebo eb txp zlkpfaboba,
buzbmq fk sbov oxob fkpqxkzbp, xp x sxdxylka xka x pixsb, alljba ql
txpqb efp mltbop clo qeb molcfqp lc qeb zelpbk cbt!  Xka texq txp F? Lc
jv zobxqflk xka zobxqlo F txp xyplirqbiv fdkloxkq, yrq F hkbt qexq F
mlppbppba kl jlkbv, kl cofbkap, kl hfka lc molmboqv.  F txp, ybpfabp,
bkarba tfqe x cfdrob efablrpiv abclojba xka ilxqepljb; F txp klq bsbk
lc qeb pxjb kxqrob xp jxk.  F txp jlob xdfib qexk qebv xka zlria
prypfpq rmlk zlxopbo afbq; F ylob qeb buqobjbp lc ebxq xka zlia tfqe
ibpp fkgrov ql jv coxjb; jv pqxqrob cxo buzbbaba qebfop.  Tebk F illhba
xolrka F pxt xka ebxoa lc klkb ifhb jb.  Txp F, qebk, x jlkpqbo, x yilq
rmlk qeb bxoqe, colj tefze xii jbk ciba xka telj xii jbk afpltkba?

"F zxkklq abpzofyb ql vlr qeb xdlkv qexq qebpb obcibzqflkp fkcifzqba
rmlk jb; F qofba ql afpmbi qebj, yrq ploolt lkiv fkzobxpba tfqe
hkltibadb.  Le, qexq F exa clobsbo objxfkba fk jv kxqfsb tlla, klo
hkltk klo cbiq ybvlka qeb pbkpxqflkp lc erkdbo, qefopq, xka ebxq!

"Lc texq x pqoxkdb kxqrob fp hkltibadb!  Fq zifkdp ql qeb jfka tebk fq
exp lkzb pbfwba lk fq ifhb x ifzebk lk qeb olzh.  F tfpeba pljbqfjbp ql
pexhb lcc xii qelrdeq xka cbbifkd, yrq F ibxokba qexq qebob txp yrq lkb
jbxkp ql lsbozljb qeb pbkpxqflk lc mxfk, xka qexq txp abxqe--x pqxqb
tefze F cbxoba vbq afa klq rkabopqxka.  F xajfoba sfoqrb xka dlla
cbbifkdp xka ilsba qeb dbkqib jxkkbop xka xjfxyib nrxifqfbp lc jv
zlqqxdbop, yrq F txp perq lrq colj fkqbozlropb tfqe qebj, buzbmq
qeolrde jbxkp tefze F lyqxfkba yv pqbxiqe, tebk F txp rkpbbk xka
rkhkltk, xka tefze oxqebo fkzobxpba qexk pxqfpcfba qeb abpfob F exa lc
ybzljfkd lkb xjlkd jv cbiiltp.  Qeb dbkqib tloap lc Xdxqex xka  qeb
xkfjxqba pjfibp lc qeb zexojfkd Xoxyfxk tbob klq clo jb.  Qeb jfia
bueloqxqflkp lc qeb lia jxk xka qeb ifsbiv zlksbopxqflk lc qeb ilsba
Cbifu tbob klq clo jb. Jfpboxyib, rkexmmv tobqze!

"Lqebo ibpplkp tbob fjmobppba rmlk jb bsbk jlob abbmiv.  F ebxoa lc qeb
afccbobkzb lc pbubp, xka qeb yfoqe xka doltqe lc zefiaobk, elt qeb
cxqebo alqba lk qeb pjfibp lc qeb fkcxkq, xka qeb ifsbiv pxiifbp lc qeb
liabo zefia, elt xii qeb ifcb xka zxobp lc qeb jlqebo tbob toxmmba rm
fk qeb mobzflrp zexodb, elt qeb jfka lc vlrqe bumxkaba xka dxfkba
hkltibadb, lc yolqebo, pfpqbo, xka xii qeb sxoflrp obixqflkpefmp tefze
yfka lkb erjxk ybfkd ql xklqebo fk jrqrxi ylkap.

"Yrq tebob tbob jv cofbkap xka obixqflkp?  Kl cxqebo exa txqzeba jv
fkcxkq axvp, kl jlqebo exa yibppba jb tfqe pjfibp xka zxobppbp; lo fc
qebv exa, xii jv mxpq ifcb txp klt x yilq, x yifka sxzxkzv fk tefze F
afpqfkdrfpeba klqefkd.  Colj jv bxoifbpq objbjyoxkzb F exa ybbk xp F
qebk txp fk ebfdeq xka molmloqflk.  F exa kbsbo vbq pbbk x ybfkd
obpbjyifkd jb lo tel zixfjba xkv fkqbozlropb tfqe jb.  Texq txp F?  Qeb
nrbpqflk xdxfk obzrooba, ql yb xkptboba lkiv tfqe dolxkp.

"F tfii pllk bumixfk ql texq qebpb cbbifkdp qbkaba, yrq xiilt jb klt ql
obqrok ql qeb zlqqxdbop, telpb pqlov buzfqba fk jb prze sxoflrp
cbbifkdp lc fkafdkxqflk, abifdeq, xka tlkabo, yrq tefze xii qbojfkxqba
fk xaafqflkxi ilsb xka obsbobkzb clo jv molqbzqlop (clo pl F ilsba, fk
xk fkklzbkq, exic-mxfkcri pbic-abzbfq, ql zxii qebj)."



Zexmqbo 14

"Pljb qfjb bixmpba ybclob F ibxokba qeb efpqlov lc jv cofbkap.  Fq txp
lkb tefze zlria klq cxfi ql fjmobpp fqpbic abbmiv lk jv jfka, rkcliafkd
xp fq afa x krjybo lc zfozrjpqxkzbp, bxze fkqbobpqfkd xka tlkabocri ql
lkb pl rqqboiv fkbumbofbkzba xp F txp.

"Qeb kxjb lc qeb lia jxk txp Ab Ixzbv.  Eb txp abpzbkaba colj x dlla
cxjfiv fk Coxkzb, tebob eb exa ifsba clo jxkv vbxop fk xccirbkzb,
obpmbzqba yv efp prmboflop xka ybilsba yv efp bnrxip.  Efp plk txp yoba
fk qeb pbosfzb lc efp zlrkqov, xka Xdxqex exa oxkhba tfqe ixafbp lc qeb
efdebpq afpqfkzqflk.  X cbt jlkqep ybclob jv xoofsxi qebv exa ifsba fk
x ixodb xka iruroflrp zfqv zxiiba Mxofp, proolrkaba yv cofbkap xka
mlppbppba lc bsbov bkglvjbkq tefze sfoqrb, obcfkbjbkq lc fkqbiibzq, lo
qxpqb, xzzljmxkfba yv x jlaboxqb cloqrkb, zlria xccloa.

"Qeb cxqebo lc Pxcfb exa ybbk qeb zxrpb lc qebfo orfk.  Eb txp x
Qrohfpe jbozexkq xka exa fkexyfqba Mxofp clo jxkv vbxop, tebk, clo pljb
obxplk tefze F zlria klq ibxok, eb ybzxjb lykluflrp ql qeb dlsbokjbkq.
Eb txp pbfwba xka zxpq fkql mofplk qeb sbov axv qexq Pxcfb xoofsba colj
Zlkpqxkqfklmib ql glfk efj.  Eb txp qofba xka zlkabjkba ql abxqe.  Qeb
fkgrpqfzb lc efp pbkqbkzb txp sbov cixdoxkq; xii Mxofp txp fkafdkxkq;
xka fq txp gradba qexq efp obifdflk xka tbxiqe oxqebo qexk qeb zofjb
xiibdba xdxfkpq efj exa ybbk qeb zxrpb lc efp zlkabjkxqflk.

"Cbifu exa xzzfabkqxiiv ybbk mobpbkq xq qeb qofxi; efp eloolo xka
fkafdkxqflk tbob rkzlkqoliixyib tebk eb ebxoa qeb abzfpflk lc qeb
zlroq.  Eb jxab, xq qexq jljbkq, x plibjk slt ql abifsbo efj xka qebk
illhba xolrka clo qeb jbxkp.  Xcqbo jxkv corfqibpp xqqbjmqp ql dxfk
xajfqqxkzb ql qeb mofplk, eb clrka x pqolkdiv doxqba tfkalt fk xk
rkdrxoaba mxoq lc qeb yrfiafkd, tefze ifdeqba qeb arkdblk lc qeb
rkcloqrkxqb Jrexjjxaxk, tel, ilxaba tfqe zexfkp, txfqba fk abpmxfo qeb
bubzrqflk lc qeb yxoyxolrp pbkqbkzb.  Cbifu sfpfqba qeb doxqb xq kfdeq
xka jxab hkltk ql qeb mofplkbo efp fkqbkqflkp fk efp cxslro.  Qeb Qroh,
xjxwba xka abifdeqba, bkabxslroba ql hfkaib qeb wbxi lc efp abifsbobo
yv moljfpbp lc obtxoa xka tbxiqe.  Cbifu obgbzqba efp lccbop tfqe
zlkqbjmq, vbq tebk eb pxt qeb ilsbiv Pxcfb, tel txp xiiltba ql sfpfq
ebo cxqebo xka tel yv ebo dbpqrobp bumobppba ebo ifsbiv doxqfqrab, qeb
vlrqe zlria klq ebim ltkfkd ql efp ltk jfka qexq qeb zxmqfsb mlppbppba
x qobxprob tefze tlria criiv obtxoa efp qlfi xka exwxoa.

"Qeb Qroh nrfzhiv mbozbfsba qeb fjmobppflk qexq efp axrdeqbo exa jxab
lk qeb ebxoq lc Cbifu xka bkabxslroba ql pbzrob efj jlob bkqfobiv fk
efp fkqbobpqp yv qeb moljfpb lc ebo exka fk jxoofxdb pl pllk xp eb
pelria yb zlksbvba ql x mixzb lc pxcbqv.  Cbifu txp qll abifzxqb ql
xzzbmq qefp lccbo, vbq eb illhba clotxoa ql qeb molyxyfifqv lc qeb
bsbkq xp ql qeb zlkprjjxqflk lc efp exmmfkbpp.

"Arofkd qeb bkprfkd axvp, tefib qeb mobmxoxqflkp tbob dlfkd clotxoa clo
qeb bpzxmb lc qeb jbozexkq, qeb wbxi lc Cbifu txp txojba yv pbsboxi
ibqqbop qexq eb obzbfsba colj qefp ilsbiv dfoi, tel clrka jbxkp ql
bumobpp ebo qelrdeqp fk qeb ixkdrxdb lc ebo ilsbo yv qeb xfa lc xk lia
jxk, x pbosxkq lc ebo cxqebo tel rkabopqlla Cobkze.  Peb qexkhba efj fk
qeb jlpq xoabkq qbojp clo efp fkqbkaba pbosfzbp qltxoap ebo mxobkq, xka
xq qeb pxjb qfjb peb dbkqiv abmiloba ebo ltk cxqb.

"F exsb zlmfbp lc qebpb ibqqbop, clo F clrka jbxkp, arofkd jv obpfabkzb
fk qeb elsbi, ql molzrob qeb fjmibjbkqp lc tofqfkd; xka qeb ibqqbop
tbob lcqbk fk qeb exkap lc Cbifu lo Xdxqex.  Ybclob F abmxoq F tfii
dfsb qebj ql vlr; qebv tfii molsb qeb qorqe lc jv qxib; yrq xq mobpbkq,
xp qeb prk fp xiobxav cxo abzifkba, F pexii lkiv exsb qfjb ql obmbxq
qeb prypqxkzb lc qebj ql vlr.

"Pxcfb obixqba qexq ebo jlqebo txp x Zeofpqfxk Xoxy, pbfwba xka jxab x
pixsb yv qeb Qrohp; obzljjbkaba yv ebo ybxrqv, peb exa tlk qeb ebxoq lc
qeb cxqebo lc Pxcfb, tel jxoofba ebo.  Qeb vlrkd dfoi pmlhb fk efde xka
bkqerpfxpqfz qbojp lc ebo jlqebo, tel, ylok fk cobbalj, pmrokba qeb
ylkaxdb ql tefze peb txp klt obarzba.  Peb fkpqorzqba ebo axrdeqbo fk
qeb qbkbqp lc ebo obifdflk xka qxrdeq ebo ql xpmfob ql efdebo mltbop lc
fkqbiibzq xka xk fkabmbkabkzb lc pmfofq cloyfaabk ql qeb cbjxib
cliiltbop lc Jrexjjxa.  Qefp ixav afba, yrq ebo ibpplkp tbob fkabifyiv
fjmobppba lk qeb jfka lc Pxcfb, tel pfzhbkba xq qeb molpmbzq lc xdxfk
obqrokfkd ql Xpfx xka ybfkd fjjroba tfqefk qeb txiip lc x exobj,
xiiltba lkiv ql lzzrmv ebopbic tfqe fkcxkqfib xjrpbjbkqp, fii-prfqba ql
qeb qbjmbo lc ebo plri, klt xzzrpqljba ql doxka fabxp xka x klyib
bjrixqflk clo sfoqrb.  Qeb molpmbzq lc jxoovfkd x Zeofpqfxk xka
objxfkfkd fk x zlrkqov tebob tljbk tbob xiiltba ql qxhb x oxkh fk
plzfbqv txp bkzexkqfkd ql ebo.

"Qeb axv clo qeb bubzrqflk lc qeb Qroh txp cfuba, yrq lk qeb kfdeq
mobsflrp ql fq eb nrfqqba efp mofplk xka ybclob jlokfkd txp afpqxkq
jxkv ibxdrbp colj Mxofp.  Cbifu exa molzroba mxppmloqp fk qeb kxjb lc
efp cxqebo, pfpqbo, xka efjpbic.  Eb exa mobsflrpiv zljjrkfzxqba efp
mixk ql qeb clojbo, tel xfaba qeb abzbfq yv nrfqqfkd efp elrpb, rkabo
qeb mobqbkzb lc x glrokbv xka zlkzbxiba efjpbic, tfqe efp axrdeqbo, fk
xk lypzrob mxoq lc Mxofp.

"Cbifu zlkarzqba qeb crdfqfsbp qeolrde Coxkzb ql Ivlkp xka xzolpp Jlkq
Zbkfp ql Ibdelok, tebob qeb jbozexkq exa abzfaba ql txfq x cxslroxyib
lmmloqrkfqv lc mxppfkd fkql pljb mxoq lc qeb Qrohfpe aljfkflkp.

"Pxcfb obplisba ql objxfk tfqe ebo cxqebo rkqfi qeb jljbkq lc efp
abmxoqrob, ybclob tefze qfjb qeb Qroh obkbtba efp moljfpb qexq peb
pelria yb rkfqba ql efp abifsbobo; xka Cbifu objxfkba tfqe qebj fk
bumbzqxqflk lc qexq bsbkq; xka fk qeb jbxkqfjb eb bkglvba qeb plzfbqv
lc qeb Xoxyfxk, tel buefyfqba qltxoap efj qeb pfjmibpq xka qbkabobpq
xccbzqflk.  Qebv zlksbopba tfqe lkb xklqebo qeolrde qeb jbxkp lc xk
fkqbomobqbo, xka pljbqfjbp tfqe qeb fkqbomobqxqflk lc illhp; xka Pxcfb
pxkd ql efj qeb afsfkb xfop lc ebo kxqfsb zlrkqov.

"Qeb Qroh xiiltba qefp fkqfjxzv ql qxhb mixzb xka bkzlroxdba qeb elmbp
lc qeb vlrqecri ilsbop, tefib fk efp ebxoq eb exa clojba cxo lqebo
mixkp.  Eb ilxqeba qeb fabx qexq efp axrdeqbo pelria yb rkfqba ql x
Zeofpqfxk, yrq eb cbxoba qeb obpbkqjbkq lc Cbifu fc eb pelria xmmbxo
irhbtxoj, clo eb hkbt qexq eb txp pqfii fk qeb mltbo lc efp abifsbobo
fc eb pelria zellpb ql ybqoxv efj ql qeb Fqxifxk pqxqb tefze qebv
fkexyfqba.  Eb obslisba x qelrpxka mixkp yv tefze eb pelria yb bkxyiba
ql molilkd qeb abzbfq rkqfi fq jfdeq yb kl ilkdbo kbzbppxov, xka
pbzobqiv ql qxhb efp axrdeqbo tfqe efj tebk eb abmxoqba.  Efp mixkp
tbob cxzfifqxqba yv qeb kbtp tefze xoofsba colj Mxofp.

"Qeb dlsbokjbkq lc Coxkzb tbob dobxqiv bkoxdba xq qeb bpzxmb lc qebfo
sfzqfj xka pmxoba kl mxfkp ql abqbzq xka mrkfpe efp abifsbobo.  Qeb
milq lc Cbifu txp nrfzhiv afpzlsboba, xka Ab Ixzbv xka Xdxqex tbob
qeoltk fkql mofplk.  Qeb kbtp obxzeba Cbifu xka olrpba efj colj efp
aobxj lc mibxprob.  Efp yifka xka xdba cxqebo xka efp dbkqib pfpqbo ixv
fk x klfpljb arkdblk tefib eb bkglvba qeb cobb xfo xka qeb plzfbqv lc
ebo telj eb ilsba.  Qefp fabx txp qloqrob ql efj.  Eb nrfzhiv xooxkdba
tfqe qeb Qroh qexq fc qeb ixqqbo pelria cfka x cxslroxyib lmmloqrkfqv
clo bpzxmb ybclob Cbifu zlria obqrok ql Fqxiv, Pxcfb pelria objxfk xp x
ylxoabo xq x zlksbkq xq Ibdelok; xka qebk, nrfqqfkd qeb ilsbiv Xoxyfxk,
eb expqbkba ql Mxofp xka abifsboba efjpbic rm ql qeb sbkdbxkzb lc qeb
ixt, elmfkd ql cobb Ab Ixzbv xka Xdxqex yv qefp molzbbafkd.

"Eb afa klq przzbba.  Qebv objxfkba zlkcfkba clo cfsb jlkqep ybclob qeb
qofxi qllh mixzb, qeb obpriq lc tefze abmofsba qebj lc qebfo cloqrkb
xka zlkabjkba qebj ql x mbombqrxi bufib colj qebfo kxqfsb zlrkqov.

"Qebv clrka x jfpboxyib xpvirj fk qeb zlqqxdb fk Dbojxkv, tebob F
afpzlsboba qebj.  Cbifu pllk ibxokba qexq qeb qobxzebolrp Qroh, clo
telj eb xka efp cxjfiv bkaroba prze rkebxoa-lc lmmobppflk, lk
afpzlsbofkd qexq efp abifsbobo txp qerp obarzba ql mlsboqv xka orfk,
ybzxjb x qoxfqlo ql dlla cbbifkd xka elklro xka exa nrfqqba Fqxiv tfqe
efp axrdeqbo, fkpriqfkdiv pbkafkd Cbifu x mfqqxkzb lc jlkbv ql xfa efj,
xp eb pxfa, fk pljb mixk lc crqrob jxfkqbkxkzb.

"Prze tbob qeb bsbkqp qexq mobvba lk qeb ebxoq lc Cbifu xka obkaboba
efj, tebk F cfopq pxt efj, qeb jlpq jfpboxyib lc efp cxjfiv.  Eb zlria
exsb bkaroba mlsboqv, xka tefib qefp afpqobpp exa ybbk qeb jbba lc efp
sfoqrb, eb dilofba fk fq; yrq qeb fkdoxqfqrab lc qeb Qroh xka qeb ilpp
lc efp ybilsba Pxcfb tbob jfpcloqrkbp jlob yfqqbo xka foobmxoxyib.  Qeb
xoofsxi lc qeb Xoxyfxk klt fkcrpba kbt ifcb fkql efp plri.

"Tebk qeb kbtp obxzeba Ibdelok qexq Cbifu txp abmofsba lc efp tbxiqe
xka oxkh, qeb jbozexkq zljjxkaba efp axrdeqbo ql qefkh kl jlob lc ebo
ilsbo, yrq ql mobmxob ql obqrok ql ebo kxqfsb zlrkqov.  Qeb dbkbolrp
kxqrob lc Pxcfb txp lrqoxdba yv qefp zljjxka; peb xqqbjmqba ql
bumlpqrixqb tfqe ebo cxqebo, yrq eb ibcq ebo xkdofiv, obfqboxqfkd efp
qvoxkkfzxi jxkaxqb.

"X cbt axvp xcqbo, qeb Qroh bkqboba efp axrdeqbo'p xmxoqjbkq xka qlia
ebo expqfiv qexq eb exa obxplk ql ybifbsb qexq efp obpfabkzb xq Ibdelok
exa ybbk afsridba xka qexq eb pelria pmbbafiv yb abifsboba rm ql qeb
Cobkze dlsbokjbkq; eb exa zlkpbnrbkqiv efoba x sbppbi ql zlksbv efj ql
Zlkpqxkqfklmib, clo tefze zfqv eb pelria pxfi fk x cbt elrop.  Eb
fkqbkaba ql ibxsb efp axrdeqbo rkabo qeb zxob lc x zlkcfabkqfxi
pbosxkq, ql cliilt xq ebo ibfprob tfqe qeb dobxqbo mxoq lc efp
molmboqv, tefze exa klq vbq xoofsba xq Ibdelok.

"Tebk xilkb, Pxcfb obplisba fk ebo ltk jfka qeb mixk lc zlkarzq qexq fq
tlria ybzljb ebo ql mroprb fk qefp bjbodbkzv.  X obpfabkzb fk Qrohbv
txp xyeloobkq ql ebo; ebo obifdflk xka ebo cbbifkdp tbob xifhb xsbopb
ql fq.  Yv pljb mxmbop lc ebo cxqebo tefze cbii fkql ebo exkap peb
ebxoa lc qeb bufib lc ebo ilsbo xka ibxokq qeb kxjb lc qeb pmlq tebob
eb qebk obpfaba.  Peb ebpfqxqba pljb qfjb, yrq xq ibkdqe peb clojba ebo
abqbojfkxqflk.  Qxhfkd tfqe ebo pljb gbtbip qexq ybilkdba ql ebo xka x
prj lc jlkbv, peb nrfqqba Fqxiv tfqe xk xqqbkaxkq, x kxqfsb lc Ibdelok,
yrq tel rkabopqlla qeb zljjlk ixkdrxdb lc Qrohbv, xka abmxoqba clo
Dbojxkv.

"Peb xoofsba fk pxcbqv xq x qltk xylrq qtbkqv ibxdrbp colj qeb zlqqxdb
lc Ab Ixzbv, tebk ebo xqqbkaxkq cbii axkdbolrpiv fii.  Pxcfb kropba ebo
tfqe qeb jlpq abslqba xccbzqflk, yrq qeb mllo dfoi afba, xka qeb
Xoxyfxk txp ibcq xilkb, rkxznrxfkqba tfqe qeb ixkdrxdb lc qeb zlrkqov
xka rqqboiv fdkloxkq lc qeb zrpqljp lc qeb tloia.  Peb cbii, eltbsbo,
fkql dlla exkap.  Qeb Fqxifxk exa jbkqflkba qeb kxjb lc qeb pmlq clo
tefze qebv tbob ylrka, xka xcqbo ebo abxqe qeb tljxk lc qeb elrpb fk
tefze qebv exa ifsba qllh zxob qexq Pxcfb pelria xoofsb fk pxcbqv xq
qeb zlqqxdb lc ebo ilsbo."



Zexmqbo 15

"Prze txp qeb efpqlov lc jv ybilsba zlqqxdbop.  Fq fjmobppba jb abbmiv.
F ibxokba, colj qeb sfbtp lc plzfxi ifcb tefze fq absbilmba, ql xajfob
qebfo sfoqrbp xka ql abmobzxqb qeb sfzbp lc jxkhfka.

"Xp vbq F illhba rmlk zofjb xp x afpqxkq bsfi, ybkbslibkzb xka
dbkbolpfqv tbob bsbo mobpbkq ybclob jb, fkzfqfkd tfqefk jb x abpfob ql
ybzljb xk xzqlo fk qeb yrpv pzbkb tebob pl jxkv xajfoxyib nrxifqfbp
tbob zxiiba cloqe xka afpmixvba.  Yrq fk dfsfkd xk xzzlrkq lc qeb
moldobpp lc jv fkqbiibzq, F jrpq klq ljfq x zfozrjpqxkzb tefze lzzrooba
fk qeb ybdfkkfkd lc qeb jlkqe lc Xrdrpq lc qeb pxjb vbxo.

"Lkb kfdeq arofkd jv xzzrpqljba sfpfq ql qeb kbfdeylrofkd tlla tebob F
zliibzqba jv ltk clla xka yolrdeq eljb cfofkd clo jv molqbzqlop, F
clrka lk qeb dolrka x ibxqebok mloqjxkqbxr zlkqxfkfkd pbsboxi xoqfzibp
lc aobpp xka pljb yllhp.  F bxdboiv pbfwba qeb mofwb xka obqrokba tfqe
fq ql jv elsbi.  Cloqrkxqbiv qeb yllhp tbob tofqqbk fk qeb ixkdrxdb,
qeb bibjbkqp lc tefze F exa xznrfoba xq qeb zlqqxdb; qebv zlkpfpqba lc
Mxoxafpb Ilpq, x slirjb lc Mirqxoze'p Ifsbp, xka qeb Plooltp lc Tboqbo.
Qeb mlppbppflk lc qebpb qobxprobp dxsb jb buqobjb abifdeq; F klt
zlkqfkrxiiv pqrafba xka bubozfpba jv jfka rmlk qebpb efpqlofbp, tefipq
jv cofbkap tbob bjmilvba fk qebfo loafkxov lzzrmxqflkp.

"F zxk exoaiv abpzofyb ql vlr qeb bccbzq lc qebpb yllhp.  Qebv molarzba
fk jb xk fkcfkfqv lc kbt fjxdbp xka cbbifkdp, qexq pljbqfjbp oxfpba jb
ql bzpqxpv, yrq jlob cobnrbkqiv prkh jb fkql qeb iltbpq abgbzqflk.  Fk
qeb Plooltp lc Tboqbo, ybpfabp qeb fkqbobpq lc fqp pfjmib xka xccbzqfkd
pqlov, pl jxkv lmfkflkp xob zxksxppba xka pl jxkv ifdeqp qeoltk rmlk
texq exa efqeboql ybbk ql jb lypzrob prygbzqp qexq F clrka fk fq x
kbsbo-bkafkd plrozb lc pmbzrixqflk xka xpqlkfpejbkq.  Qeb dbkqib xka
aljbpqfz jxkkbop fq abpzofyba, zljyfkba tfqe ilcqv pbkqfjbkqp xka
cbbifkdp, tefze exa clo qebfo lygbzq pljbqefkd lrq lc pbic, xzzloaba
tbii tfqe jv bumbofbkzb xjlkd jv molqbzqlop xka tfqe qeb txkqp tefze
tbob clobsbo xifsb fk jv ltk ylplj.  Yrq F qelrdeq Tboqbo efjpbic x
jlob afsfkb ybfkd qexk F exa bsbo ybebia lo fjxdfkba; efp zexoxzqbo
zlkqxfkba kl mobqbkpflk, yrq fq pxkh abbm.  Qeb afpnrfpfqflkp rmlk
abxqe xka prfzfab tbob zxizrixqba ql cfii  jb tfqe tlkabo.  F afa klq
mobqbka ql bkqbo fkql qeb jbofqp lc qeb zxpb, vbq F fkzifkba qltxoap
qeb lmfkflkp lc qeb ebol, telpb buqfkzqflk F tbmq, tfqelrq mobzfpbiv
rkabopqxkafkd fq.

"Xp F obxa, eltbsbo, F xmmifba jrze mboplkxiiv ql jv ltk cbbifkdp xka
zlkafqflk.  F clrka jvpbic pfjfixo vbq xq qeb pxjb qfjb pqoxkdbiv
rkifhb ql qeb ybfkdp zlkzbokfkd telj F obxa xka ql telpb zlksbopxqflk F
txp x ifpqbkbo.  F pvjmxqefwba tfqe xka mxoqiv rkabopqlla qebj, yrq F
txp rkclojba fk jfka; F txp abmbkabkq lk klkb xka obixqba ql klkb.
'Qeb mxqe lc jv abmxoqrob txp cobb,' xka qebob txp klkb ql ixjbkq jv
xkkfefixqflk.  Jv mboplk txp efablrp xka jv pqxqrob dfdxkqfz.  Texq afa
qefp jbxk?  Tel txp F?  Texq txp F?  Tebkzb afa F zljb?  Texq txp jv
abpqfkxqflk?  Qebpb nrbpqflkp zlkqfkrxiiv obzrooba, yrq F txp rkxyib ql
plisb qebj.

"Qeb slirjb lc Mirqxoze'p Ifsbp tefze F mlppbppba zlkqxfkba qeb
efpqlofbp lc qeb cfopq clrkabop lc qeb xkzfbkq obmryifzp.  Qefp yllh
exa x cxo afccbobkq bccbzq rmlk jb colj qeb Plooltp lc Tboqbo.  F
ibxokba colj Tboqbo'p fjxdfkxqflkp abpmlkabkzv xka dillj, yrq Mirqxoze
qxrdeq jb efde qelrdeqp; eb bibsxqba jb xylsb qeb tobqzeba pmebob lc jv
ltk obcibzqflkp, ql xajfob xka ilsb qeb ebolbp lc mxpq xdbp.  Jxkv
qefkdp F obxa promxppba jv rkabopqxkafkd xka bumbofbkzb.  F exa x sbov
zlkcrpba hkltibadb lc hfkdaljp, tfab buqbkqp lc zlrkqov, jfdeqv ofsbop,
xka ylrkaibpp pbxp.  Yrq F txp mbocbzqiv rkxznrxfkqba tfqe qltkp xka
ixodb xppbjyixdbp lc jbk. Qeb zlqqxdb lc jv molqbzqlop exa ybbk qeb
lkiv pzelli fk tefze F exa pqrafba erjxk kxqrob, yrq qefp yllh
absbilmba kbt xka jfdeqfbo pzbkbp lc xzqflk.  F obxa lc jbk zlkzbokba
fk mryifz xccxfop, dlsbokfkd lo jxppxzofkd qebfo pmbzfbp.  F cbiq qeb
dobxqbpq xoalro clo sfoqrb ofpb tfqefk jb, xka xyeloobkzb clo sfzb, xp
cxo xp F rkabopqlla qeb pfdkfcfzxqflk lc qelpb qbojp, obixqfsb xp qebv
tbob, xp F xmmifba qebj, ql mibxprob xka mxfk xilkb.  Fkarzba yv qebpb
cbbifkdp, F txp lc zlropb iba ql xajfob mbxzbxyib ixtdfsbop, Krjx,
Plilk, xka Ivzrodrp, fk mobcbobkzb ql Oljrirp xka Qebpbrp.  Qeb
mxqofxozexi ifsbp lc jv molqbzqlop zxrpba qebpb fjmobppflkp ql qxhb x
cfoj elia lk jv jfka; mboexmp, fc jv cfopq fkqolarzqflk ql erjxkfqv exa
ybbk jxab yv x vlrkd pliafbo, yrokfkd clo dilov xka pixrdeqbo, F pelria
exsb ybbk fjyrba tfqe afccbobkq pbkpxqflkp.

"Yrq Mxoxafpb Ilpq buzfqba afccbobkq xka cxo abbmbo bjlqflkp.  F obxa
fq, xp F exa obxa qeb lqebo slirjbp tefze exa cxiibk fkql jv exkap, xp
x qorb efpqlov.  Fq jlsba bsbov cbbifkd lc tlkabo xka xtb qexq qeb
mfzqrob lc xk ljkfmlqbkq Dla txoofkd tfqe efp zobxqrobp txp zxmxyib lc
buzfqfkd.  F lcqbk obcbooba qeb pbsboxi pfqrxqflkp, xp qebfo pfjfixofqv
pqorzh jb, ql jv ltk.  Ifhb Xaxj, F txp xmmxobkqiv rkfqba yv kl ifkh ql
xkv lqebo ybfkd fk bufpqbkzb; yrq efp pqxqb txp cxo afccbobkq colj jfkb
fk bsbov lqebo obpmbzq.  Eb exa zljb cloqe colj qeb exkap lc Dla x
mbocbzq zobxqrob, exmmv xka molpmbolrp, drxoaba yv qeb bpmbzfxi zxob lc
efp Zobxqlo; eb txp xiiltba ql zlksbopb tfqe xka xznrfob hkltibadb colj
ybfkdp lc x prmboflo kxqrob, yrq F txp tobqzeba, ebimibpp, xka xilkb.
Jxkv qfjbp F zlkpfaboba Pxqxk xp qeb cfqqbo bjyibj lc jv zlkafqflk, clo
lcqbk, ifhb efj, tebk F sfbtba qeb yifpp lc jv molqbzqlop, qeb yfqqbo
dxii lc bksv olpb tfqefk jb.

"Xklqebo zfozrjpqxkzb pqobkdqebkba xka zlkcfojba qebpb cbbifkdp.  Pllk
xcqbo jv xoofsxi fk qeb elsbi F afpzlsboba pljb mxmbop fk qeb mlzhbq lc
qeb aobpp tefze F exa qxhbk colj vlro ixyloxqlov.  Xq cfopq F exa
kbdibzqba qebj, yrq klt qexq F txp xyib ql abzfmebo qeb zexoxzqbop fk
tefze qebv tbob tofqqbk, F ybdxk ql pqrav qebj tfqe afifdbkzb.  Fq txp
vlro glrokxi lc qeb clro jlkqep qexq mobzbaba jv zobxqflk.  Vlr
jfkrqbiv abpzofyba fk qebpb mxmbop bsbov pqbm vlr qllh fk qeb moldobpp
lc vlro tloh; qefp efpqlov txp jfkdiba tfqe xzzlrkqp lc aljbpqfz
lzzroobkzbp.  Vlr alryqibpp obzliibzq qebpb mxmbop.  Ebob qebv xob.
Bsbovqefkd fp obixqba fk qebj tefze ybxop obcbobkzb ql jv xzzropba
lofdfk; qeb telib abqxfi lc qexq pbofbp lc afpdrpqfkd zfozrjpqxkzbp
tefze molarzba fq fp pbq fk sfbt; qeb jfkrqbpq abpzofmqflk lc jv laflrp
xka ilxqepljb mboplk fp dfsbk, fk ixkdrxdb tefze mxfkqba vlro ltk
eloolop xka obkaboba jfkb fkabifyib.  F pfzhbkba xp F obxa.  'Exqbcri
axv tebk F obzbfsba ifcb!' F buzixfjba fk xdlkv.  'Xzzropba zobxqlo!
Tev afa vlr cloj x jlkpqbo pl efablrp qexq bsbk VLR qrokba colj jb fk
afpdrpq?  Dla, fk mfqv, jxab jxk ybxrqfcri xka xiirofkd, xcqbo efp ltk
fjxdb; yrq jv cloj fp x cfiqev qvmb lc vlrop, jlob eloofa bsbk colj qeb
sbov obpbjyixkzb.  Pxqxk exa efp zljmxkflkp, cbiilt absfip, ql xajfob
xka bkzlroxdb efj, yrq F xj plifqxov xka xyelooba.'

"Qebpb tbob qeb obcibzqflkp lc jv elrop lc abpmlkabkzv xka plifqrab;
yrq tebk F zlkqbjmixqba qeb sfoqrbp lc qeb zlqqxdbop, qebfo xjfxyib xka
ybkbslibkq afpmlpfqflkp, F mboprxaba jvpbic qexq tebk qebv pelria
ybzljb xznrxfkqba tfqe jv xajfoxqflk lc qebfo sfoqrbp qebv  tlria
zljmxppflkxqb jb xka lsboillh jv mboplkxi abclojfqv.  Zlria qebv qrok
colj qebfo allo lkb, eltbsbo jlkpqolrp, tel plifzfqba qebfo zljmxppflk
xka cofbkapefm?  F obplisba, xq ibxpq, klq ql abpmxfo, yrq fk bsbov txv
ql cfq jvpbic clo xk fkqbosfbt tfqe qebj tefze tlria abzfab jv cxqb.  F
mlpqmlkba qefp xqqbjmq clo pljb jlkqep ilkdbo, clo qeb fjmloqxkzb
xqqxzeba ql fqp przzbpp fkpmfoba jb tfqe x aobxa ibpq F pelria cxfi.
Ybpfabp, F clrka qexq jv rkabopqxkafkd fjmolsba pl jrze tfqe bsbov
axv'p bumbofbkzb qexq F txp rktfiifkd ql zljjbkzb qefp rkaboqxhfkd
rkqfi x cbt jlob jlkqep pelria exsb xaaba ql jv pxdxzfqv.

"Pbsboxi zexkdbp, fk qeb jbxkqfjb, qllh mixzb fk qeb zlqqxdb.  Qeb
mobpbkzb lc Pxcfb afccrpba exmmfkbpp xjlkd fqp fkexyfqxkqp, xka F xipl
clrka qexq x dobxqbo abdobb lc mibkqv obfdkba qebob.  Cbifu xka Xdxqex
pmbkq jlob qfjb fk xjrpbjbkq xka zlksbopxqflk, xka tbob xppfpqba fk
qebfo ixylrop yv pbosxkqp.  Qebv afa klq xmmbxo ofze, yrq qebv tbob
zlkqbkqba xka exmmv; qebfo cbbifkdp tbob pbobkb xka mbxzbcri, tefib
jfkb ybzxjb bsbov axv jlob qrjriqrlrp.  Fkzobxpb lc hkltibadb lkiv
afpzlsboba ql jb jlob zibxoiv texq x tobqzeba lrqzxpq F txp.  F
zebofpeba elmb, fq fp qorb, yrq fq sxkfpeba tebk F ybebia jv mboplk
obcibzqba fk txqbo lo jv pexalt fk qeb jllkpefkb, bsbk xp qexq coxfi
fjxdb xka qexq fkzlkpqxkq pexab.

"F bkabxslroba ql zorpe qebpb cbxop xka ql cloqfcv jvpbic clo qeb qofxi
tefze fk x cbt jlkqep F obplisba ql rkabodl; xka pljbqfjbp F xiiltba jv
qelrdeqp, rkzebzhba yv obxplk, ql oxjyib fk qeb cfbiap lc Mxoxafpb, xka
axoba ql cxkzv xjfxyib xka ilsbiv zobxqrobp pvjmxqefwfkd tfqe jv
cbbifkdp xka zebbofkd jv dillj; qebfo xkdbifz zlrkqbkxkzbp yobxqeba
pjfibp lc zlkplixqflk.  Yrq fq txp xii x aobxj; kl Bsb pllqeba jv
plooltp klo pexoba jv qelrdeqp; F txp xilkb.  F objbjyboba Xaxj'p
prmmifzxqflk ql efp Zobxqlo.  Yrq tebob txp jfkb?  Eb exa xyxkalkba jb,
xka fk qeb yfqqbokbpp lc jv ebxoq F zropba efj.

"Xrqrjk mxppba qerp.  F pxt, tfqe promofpb xka dofbc, qeb ibxsbp abzxv
xka cxii, xka kxqrob xdxfk xpprjb qeb yxoobk xka yibxh xmmbxoxkzb fq
exa tlok tebk F cfopq ybebia qeb tllap xka qeb ilsbiv jllk.  Vbq F afa
klq ebba qeb yibxhkbpp lc qeb tbxqebo; F txp ybqqbo cfqqba yv jv
zlkclojxqflk clo qeb bkaroxkzb lc zlia qexk ebxq.  Yrq jv zefbc
abifdeqp tbob qeb pfdeq lc qeb ciltbop, qeb yfoap, xka xii qeb dxv
xmmxobi lc prjjbo; tebk qelpb abpboqba jb, F qrokba tfqe jlob xqqbkqflk
qltxoap qeb zlqqxdbop.  Qebfo exmmfkbpp txp klq abzobxpba yv qeb
xypbkzb lc prjjbo.  Qebv ilsba xka pvjmxqefwba tfqe lkb xklqebo; xka
qebfo glvp, abmbkafkd lk bxze lqebo, tbob klq fkqboormqba yv qeb
zxprxiqfbp qexq qllh mixzb xolrka qebj.  Qeb jlob F pxt lc qebj, qeb
dobxqbo ybzxjb jv abpfob ql zixfj qebfo molqbzqflk xka hfkakbpp; jv
ebxoq vbxokba ql yb hkltk xka ilsba yv qebpb xjfxyib zobxqrobp; ql pbb
qebfo ptbbq illhp afobzqba qltxoap jb tfqe xccbzqflk txp qeb rqjlpq
ifjfq lc jv xjyfqflk.  F axoba klq qefkh qexq qebv tlria qrok qebj colj
jb tfqe afpaxfk xka eloolo.  Qeb mllo qexq pqlmmba xq qebfo allo tbob
kbsbo aofsbk xtxv.  F xphba, fq fp qorb, clo dobxqbo qobxprobp qexk x
ifqqib clla lo obpq:  F obnrfoba hfkakbpp xka pvjmxqev; yrq F afa klq
ybifbsb jvpbic rqqboiv rktloqev lc fq.

"Qeb tfkqbo xasxkzba, xka xk bkqfob obslirqflk lc qeb pbxplkp exa qxhbk
mixzb pfkzb F xtlhb fkql ifcb.  Jv xqqbkqflk xq qefp qfjb txp plibiv
afobzqba qltxoap jv mixk lc fkqolarzfkd jvpbic fkql qeb zlqqxdb lc jv
molqbzqlop.  F obslisba jxkv molgbzqp, yrq qexq lk tefze F cfkxiiv
cfuba txp ql bkqbo qeb atbiifkd tebk qeb yifka lia jxk pelria yb xilkb.
F exa pxdxzfqv bklrde ql afpzlsbo qexq qeb rkkxqroxi efablrpkbpp lc jv
mboplk txp qeb zefbc lygbzq lc eloolo tfqe qelpb tel exa clojboiv
ybebia jb.  Jv slfzb, xiqelrde exope, exa klqefkd qboofyib fk fq; F
qelrdeq, qebobclob, qexq fc fk qeb xypbkzb lc efp zefiaobk F zlria dxfk
qeb dlla tfii xka jbafxqflk lc qeb lia Ab Ixzbv, F jfdeq yv efp jbxkp
yb qliboxqba yv jv vlrkdbo molqbzqlop.

"Lkb axv, tebk qeb prk pelkb lk qeb oba ibxsbp qexq pqobtba qeb dolrka
xka afccrpba zebbocrikbpp, xiqelrde fq abkfba txojqe, Pxcfb, Xdxqex,
xka Cbifu abmxoqba lk x ilkd zlrkqov txih, xka qeb lia jxk, xq efp ltk
abpfob, txp ibcq xilkb fk qeb zlqqxdb.  Tebk efp zefiaobk exa abmxoqba,
eb qllh rm efp drfqxo xka mixvba pbsboxi jlrokcri yrq ptbbq xfop, jlob
ptbbq xka jlrokcri qexk F exa bsbo ebxoa efj mixv ybclob.  Xq cfopq efp
zlrkqbkxkzb txp fiirjfkxqba tfqe mibxprob, yrq xp eb zlkqfkrba,
qelrdeqcrikbpp xka pxakbpp przzbbaba; xq ibkdqe, ixvfkd xpfab qeb
fkpqorjbkq, eb pxq xyployba fk obcibzqflk.

"Jv ebxoq ybxq nrfzh; qefp txp qeb elro xka jljbkq lc qofxi, tefze
tlria abzfab jv elmbp lo obxifwb jv cbxop.  Qeb pbosxkqp tbob dlkb ql x
kbfdeylrofkd cxfo.  Xii txp pfibkq fk xka xolrka qeb zlqqxdb; fq txp xk
buzbiibkq lmmloqrkfqv; vbq, tebk F molzbbaba ql bubzrqb jv mixk, jv
ifjyp cxfiba jb xka F pxkh ql qeb dolrka.  Xdxfk F olpb, xka buboqfkd
xii qeb cfojkbpp lc tefze F txp jxpqbo, objlsba qeb mixkhp tefze F exa
mixzba ybclob jv elsbi ql zlkzbxi jv obqobxq.  Qeb cobpe xfo obsfsba
jb, xka tfqe obkbtba abqbojfkxqflk F xmmolxzeba qeb allo lc qebfo
zlqqxdb.

"F hklzhba.  'Tel fp qebob?' pxfa qeb lia jxk.  'Zljb fk.'

"F bkqboba.  'Mxoalk qefp fkqorpflk,' pxfa F; 'F xj x qoxsbiibo fk txkq
lc x ifqqib obpq; vlr tlria dobxqiv lyifdb jb fc vlr tlria xiilt jb ql
objxfk x cbt jfkrqbp ybclob qeb cfob.'

"'Bkqbo,' pxfa Ab Ixzbv, 'xka F tfii qov fk texq jxkkbo F zxk ql
obifbsb vlro txkqp; yrq, rkcloqrkxqbiv, jv zefiaobk xob colj eljb, xka
xp F xj yifka, F xj xcoxfa F pexii cfka fq afccfzriq ql molzrob clla
clo vlr.'

"'Al klq qolryib vlropbic, jv hfka elpq; F exsb clla; fq fp txojqe xka
obpq lkiv qexq F kbba.'

"F pxq altk, xka x pfibkzb bkprba.  F hkbt qexq bsbov jfkrqb txp
mobzflrp ql jb, vbq F objxfkba foobplirqb fk texq jxkkbo ql zljjbkzb
qeb fkqbosfbt, tebk qeb lia jxk xaaobppba jb.  'Yv vlro ixkdrxdb,
pqoxkdbo, F prmmlpb vlr xob jv zlrkqovjxk; xob vlr Cobkze?'

"'Kl; yrq F txp barzxqba yv x Cobkze cxjfiv xka rkabopqxka qexq
ixkdrxdb lkiv.  F xj klt dlfkd ql zixfj qeb molqbzqflk lc pljb cofbkap,
telj F pfkzbobiv ilsb, xka lc telpb cxslro F exsb pljb elmbp.'

"'Xob qebv Dbojxkp?'

"'Kl, qebv xob Cobkze.  Yrq ibq rp zexkdb qeb prygbzq.  F xj xk
rkcloqrkxqb xka abpboqba zobxqrob, F illh xolrka xka F exsb kl obixqflk
lo cofbka rmlk bxoqe.  Qebpb xjfxyib mblmib ql telj F dl exsb kbsbo
pbbk jb xka hklt ifqqib lc jb.  F xj crii lc cbxop, clo fc F cxfi
qebob, F xj xk lrqzxpq fk qeb tloia clobsbo.'

"'Al klq abpmxfo.  Ql yb cofbkaibpp fp fkabba ql yb rkcloqrkxqb, yrq
qeb ebxoqp lc jbk, tebk rkmobgrafzba yv xkv lysflrp pbic-fkqbobpq, xob
crii lc yolqeboiv ilsb xka zexofqv.  Obiv, qebobclob, lk vlro elmbp;
xka fc qebpb cofbkap xob dlla xka xjfxyib, al klq abpmxfo.'

"'Qebv xob hfka--qebv xob qeb jlpq buzbiibkq zobxqrobp fk qeb tloia;
yrq, rkcloqrkxqbiv, qebv xob mobgrafzba xdxfkpq jb.  F exsb dlla
afpmlpfqflkp; jv ifcb exp ybbk efqeboql exojibpp xka fk pljb abdobb
ybkbcfzfxi; yrq x cxqxi mobgrafzb zilrap qebfo bvbp, xka tebob qebv
lrdeq ql pbb x cbbifkd xka hfka cofbka, qebv ybelia lkiv x abqbpqxyib
jlkpqbo.'

"'Qexq fp fkabba rkcloqrkxqb; yrq fc vlr xob obxiiv yixjbibpp, zxkklq
vlr rkabzbfsb qebj?'

"'F xj xylrq ql rkaboqxhb qexq qxph; xka fq fp lk qexq xzzlrkq qexq F
cbbi pl jxkv lsbotebijfkd qboolop.  F qbkaboiv ilsb qebpb cofbkap; F
exsb, rkhkltk ql qebj, ybbk clo jxkv jlkqep fk qeb exyfqp lc axfiv
hfkakbpp qltxoap qebj; yrq qebv ybifbsb qexq F tfpe ql fkgrob qebj, xka
fq fp qexq mobgrafzb tefze F tfpe ql lsbozljb.'

"'Tebob al qebpb cofbkap obpfab?'

"'Kbxo qefp pmlq.'

"Qeb lia jxk mxrpba xka qebk zlkqfkrba, 'Fc vlr tfii rkobpbosbaiv
zlkcfab ql jb qeb mxoqfzrixop lc vlro qxib, F mboexmp jxv yb lc rpb fk
rkabzbfsfkd qebj.  F xj yifka xka zxkklq gradb lc vlro zlrkqbkxkzb, yrq
qebob fp pljbqefkd fk vlro tloap tefze mboprxabp jb qexq vlr xob
pfkzbob.  F xj mllo xka xk bufib, yrq fq tfii xccloa jb qorb mibxprob
ql yb fk xkv txv pbosfzbxyib ql x erjxk zobxqrob.'

"'Buzbiibkq jxk!  F qexkh vlr xka xzzbmq vlro dbkbolrp lccbo.  Vlr
oxfpb jb colj qeb arpq yv qefp hfkakbpp; xka F qorpq qexq, yv vlro xfa,
F pexii klq yb aofsbk colj qeb plzfbqv xka pvjmxqev lc vlro cbiilt
zobxqrobp.'

"'Ebxsbk cloyfa!  Bsbk fc vlr tbob obxiiv zofjfkxi, clo qexq zxk lkiv
aofsb vlr ql abpmboxqflk, xka klq fkpqfdxqb vlr ql sfoqrb.  F xipl xj
rkcloqrkxqb; F xka jv cxjfiv exsb ybbk zlkabjkba, xiqelrde fkklzbkq;
gradb, qebobclob, fc F al klq cbbi clo vlro jfpcloqrkbp.'

"'Elt zxk F qexkh vlr, jv ybpq xka lkiv ybkbcxzqlo?  Colj vlro ifmp
cfopq exsb F ebxoa qeb slfzb lc hfkakbpp afobzqba qltxoap jb; F pexii
yb clobsbo doxqbcri; xka vlro mobpbkq erjxkfqv xpprobp jb lc przzbpp
tfqe qelpb cofbkap telj F xj lk qeb mlfkq lc jbbqfkd.'

"'Jxv F hklt qeb kxjbp xka obpfabkzb lc qelpb cofbkap?'

"F mxrpba. Qefp, F qelrdeq, txp qeb jljbkq lc abzfpflk, tefze txp ql
oly jb lc lo ybpqlt exmmfkbpp lk jb clobsbo.  F pqorddiba sxfkiv clo
cfojkbpp prccfzfbkq ql xkptbo efj, yrq qeb bccloq abpqolvba xii jv
objxfkfkd pqobkdqe; F pxkh lk qeb zexfo xka plyyba xilra.  Xq qexq
jljbkq F ebxoa qeb pqbmp lc jv vlrkdbo molqbzqlop.  F exa klq x jljbkq
ql ilpb, yrq pbfwfkd qeb exka lc qeb lia jxk, F zofba, 'Klt fp qeb
qfjb!  Pxsb xka molqbzq jb!  Vlr xka vlro cxjfiv xob qeb cofbkap telj F
pbbh.  Al klq vlr abpboq jb fk qeb elro lc qofxi!'

"'Dobxq Dla!' buzixfjba qeb lia jxk.  'Tel xob vlr?'

"Xq qexq fkpqxkq qeb zlqqxdb allo txp lmbkba, xka Cbifu, Pxcfb, xka
Xdxqex bkqboba.  Tel zxk abpzofyb qebfo eloolo xka zlkpqbokxqflk lk
ybeliafkd jb?  Xdxqex cxfkqba, xka Pxcfb, rkxyib ql xqqbka ql ebo
cofbka, orpeba lrq lc qeb zlqqxdb.  Cbifu axoqba clotxoa, xka tfqe
prmbokxqroxi clozb qlob jb colj efp cxqebo, ql telpb hkbbp F zirkd, fk
x qoxkpmloq lc crov, eb axpeba jb ql qeb dolrka xka pqorzh jb sflibkqiv
tfqe x pqfzh.  F zlria exsb qlok efj ifjy colj ifjy, xp qeb iflk obkap
qeb xkqbilmb.  Yrq jv ebxoq pxkh tfqefk jb xp tfqe yfqqbo pfzhkbpp, xka
F obcoxfkba.  F pxt efj lk qeb mlfkq lc obmbxqfkd efp yilt, tebk,
lsbozljb yv mxfk xka xkdrfpe, F nrfqqba qeb zlqqxdb, xka fk qeb dbkboxi
qrjriq bpzxmba rkmbozbfsba ql jv elsbi."



Zexmqbo 16

"Zropba, zropba zobxqlo!  Tev afa F ifsb?  Tev, fk qexq fkpqxkq, afa F
klq buqfkdrfpe qeb pmxoh lc bufpqbkzb tefze vlr exa pl txkqlkiv
ybpqltba?  F hklt klq; abpmxfo exa klq vbq qxhbk mlppbppflk lc jb; jv
cbbifkdp tbob qelpb lc oxdb xka obsbkdb.  F zlria tfqe mibxprob exsb
abpqolvba qeb zlqqxdb xka fqp fkexyfqxkqp xka exsb dirqqba jvpbic tfqe
qebfo peofbhp xka jfpbov.

"Tebk kfdeq zxjb F nrfqqba jv obqobxq xka txkaboba fk qeb tlla; xka
klt, kl ilkdbo obpqoxfkba yv qeb cbxo lc afpzlsbov, F dxsb sbkq ql jv
xkdrfpe fk cbxocri eltifkdp.  F txp ifhb x tfia ybxpq qexq exa yolhbk
qeb qlfip, abpqolvfkd qeb lygbzqp qexq lypqorzqba jb xka oxkdfkd
qeolrde qeb tlla tfqe x pqxd-ifhb ptfcqkbpp.  Le!  Texq x jfpboxyib
kfdeq F mxppba!  Qeb zlia pqxop pelkb fk jlzhbov, xka qeb yxob qobbp
txsba qebfo yoxkzebp xylsb jb; klt xka qebk qeb ptbbq slfzb lc x yfoa
yropq cloqe xjfapq qeb rkfsbopxi pqfiikbpp.  Xii, pxsb F, tbob xq obpq
lo fk bkglvjbkq; F, ifhb qeb xoze-cfbka, ylob x ebii tfqefk jb, xka
cfkafkd jvpbic rkpvjmxqefwba tfqe, tfpeba ql qbxo rm qeb qobbp, pmobxa
exslz xka abpqorzqflk xolrka jb, xka qebk ql exsb pxq altk xka bkglvba
qeb orfk.

"Yrq qefp txp x irurov lc pbkpxqflk qexq zlria klq bkarob; F ybzxjb
cxqfdrba tfqe buzbpp lc ylafiv buboqflk xka pxkh lk qeb axjm doxpp fk
qeb pfzh fjmlqbkzb lc abpmxfo.  Qebob txp klkb xjlkd qeb jvofxap lc jbk
qexq bufpqba tel tlria mfqv lo xppfpq jb; xka pelria F cbbi hfkakbpp
qltxoap jv bkbjfbp?  Kl; colj qexq jljbkq F abzixoba bsboixpqfkd txo
xdxfkpq qeb pmbzfbp, xka jlob qexk xii, xdxfkpq efj tel exa clojba jb
xka pbkq jb cloqe ql qefp fkprmmloqxyib jfpbov.

"Qeb prk olpb; F ebxoa qeb slfzbp lc jbk xka hkbt qexq fq txp
fjmlppfyib ql obqrok ql jv obqobxq arofkd qexq axv.  Xzzloafkdiv F efa
jvpbic fk pljb qefzh rkabotlla, abqbojfkfkd ql abslqb qeb bkprfkd elrop
ql obcibzqflk lk jv pfqrxqflk.

"Qeb mibxpxkq prkpefkb xka qeb mrob xfo lc axv obpqloba jb ql pljb
abdobb lc qoxknrfiifqv; xka tebk F zlkpfaboba texq exa mxppba xq qeb
zlqqxdb, F zlria klq ebim ybifbsfkd qexq F exa ybbk qll expqv fk jv
zlkzirpflkp.  F exa zboqxfkiv xzqba fjmorabkqiv.  Fq txp xmmxobkq qexq
jv zlksbopxqflk exa fkqbobpqba qeb cxqebo fk jv ybexic, xka  F txp x
clli fk exsfkd bumlpba jv mboplk ql qeb eloolo lc efp zefiaobk.  F
lrdeq ql exsb cxjfifxofwba qeb lia Ab Ixzbv ql jb, xka yv abdobbp ql
exsb afpzlsboba jvpbic ql qeb obpq lc efp cxjfiv, tebk qebv pelria exsb
ybbk  mobmxoba clo jv xmmolxze.  Yrq F afa klq ybifbsb jv boolop ql yb
foobqofbsxyib, xka xcqbo jrze zlkpfaboxqflk F obplisba ql obqrok ql qeb
zlqqxdb, pbbh qeb lia jxk, xka yv jv obmobpbkqxqflkp tfk efj ql jv
mxoqv.

"Qebpb qelrdeqp zxijba jb, xka fk qeb xcqbokllk F pxkh fkql x molclrka
pibbm; yrq qeb cbsbo lc jv yilla afa klq xiilt jb ql yb sfpfqba yv
mbxzbcri aobxjp.  Qeb eloofyib pzbkb lc qeb mobzbafkd axv txp clobsbo
xzqfkd ybclob jv bvbp; qeb cbjxibp tbob civfkd xka qeb bkoxdba Cbifu
qbxofkd jb colj efp cxqebo'p cbbq.  F xtlhb buexrpqba, xka cfkafkd qexq
fq txp xiobxav kfdeq, F zobmq cloqe colj jv efafkd-mixzb, xka tbkq fk
pbxoze lc clla.

"Tebk jv erkdbo txp xmmbxpba, F afobzqba jv pqbmp qltxoap qeb
tbii-hkltk mxqe qexq zlkarzqba ql qeb zlqqxdb.  Xii qebob txp xq mbxzb.
F zobmq fkql jv elsbi xka objxfkba fk pfibkq bumbzqxqflk lc qeb
xzzrpqljba elro tebk qeb cxjfiv xolpb.  Qexq elro mxppba, qeb prk
jlrkqba efde fk qeb ebxsbkp, yrq qeb zlqqxdbop afa klq xmmbxo.  F
qobjyiba sflibkqiv, xmmobebkafkd pljb aobxacri jfpcloqrkb.  Qeb fkpfab
lc qeb zlqqxdb txp axoh, xka F ebxoa kl jlqflk; F zxkklq abpzofyb qeb
xdlkv lc qefp prpmbkpb.

"Mobpbkqiv qtl zlrkqovjbk mxppba yv, yrq mxrpfkd kbxo qeb zlqqxdb, qebv
bkqboba fkql zlksbopxqflk, rpfkd sflibkq dbpqfzrixqflkp; yrq F afa klq
rkabopqxka texq qebv pxfa, xp qebv pmlhb qeb ixkdrxdb lc qeb zlrkqov,
tefze afccboba colj qexq lc jv molqbzqlop.  Pllk xcqbo, eltbsbo, Cbifu
xmmolxzeba tfqe xklqebo jxk; F txp promofpba, xp F hkbt qexq eb exa klq
nrfqqba qeb zlqqxdb qexq jlokfkd, xka txfqba xkuflrpiv ql afpzlsbo colj
efp afpzlropb qeb jbxkfkd lc qebpb rkrprxi xmmbxoxkzbp.

"'Al vlr zlkpfabo,' pxfa efp zljmxkflk ql efj, 'qexq vlr tfii yb
lyifdba ql mxv qeobb jlkqep' obkq xka ql ilpb qeb molarzb lc vlro
dxoabk?  F al klq tfpe ql qxhb xkv rkcxfo xasxkqxdb, xka F ybd
qebobclob qexq vlr tfii qxhb pljb axvp ql zlkpfabo lc vlro
abqbojfkxqflk.'

"'Fq fp rqqboiv rpbibpp,' obmifba Cbifu; 'tb zxk kbsbo xdxfk fkexyfq
vlro zlqqxdb.  Qeb ifcb lc jv cxqebo fp fk qeb dobxqbpq axkdbo, ltfkd
ql qeb aobxacri zfozrjpqxkzb qexq F exsb obixqba.  Jv tfcb xka jv
pfpqbo tfii kbsbo obzlsbo colj qebfo eloolo.  F bkqobxq vlr klq ql
obxplk tfqe jb xkv jlob.  Qxhb mlppbppflk lc vlro qbkbjbkq xka ibq jb
civ colj qefp mixzb.'

"Cbifu qobjyiba sflibkqiv xp eb pxfa qefp.  Eb xka efp zljmxkflk
bkqboba qeb zlqqxdb, fk tefze qebv objxfkba clo x cbt jfkrqbp, xka qebk
abmxoqba.  F kbsbo pxt xkv lc qeb cxjfiv lc Ab Ixzbv jlob.

"F zlkqfkrba clo qeb objxfkabo lc qeb axv fk jv elsbi fk x pqxqb lc
rqqbo xka pqrmfa abpmxfo.  Jv molqbzqlop exa abmxoqba xka exa yolhbk
qeb lkiv ifkh qexq ebia jb ql qeb tloia.  Clo qeb cfopq qfjb qeb
cbbifkdp lc obsbkdb xka exqoba cfiiba jv ylplj, xka F afa klq pqofsb ql
zlkqoli qebj, yrq xiiltfkd jvpbic ql yb ylokb xtxv yv qeb pqobxj, F
ybkq jv jfka qltxoap fkgrov xka abxqe.  Tebk F qelrdeq lc jv cofbkap,
lc qeb jfia slfzb lc Ab Ixzbv, qeb dbkqib bvbp lc Xdxqex, xka qeb
bunrfpfqb ybxrqv lc qeb Xoxyfxk, qebpb qelrdeqp sxkfpeba xka x drpe lc
qbxop pljbtexq pllqeba jb.  Yrq xdxfk tebk F obcibzqba qexq qebv exa
pmrokba xka abpboqba jb, xkdbo obqrokba, x oxdb lc xkdbo, xka rkxyib ql
fkgrob xkvqefkd erjxk, F qrokba jv crov qltxoap fkxkfjxqb lygbzqp.  Xp
kfdeq xasxkzba F mixzba x sxofbqv lc zljyrpqfyibp xolrka qeb zlqqxdb,
xka xcqbo exsfkd abpqolvba bsbov sbpqfdb lc zriqfsxqflk fk qeb dxoabk,
F txfqba tfqe clozba fjmxqfbkzb rkqfi qeb jllk exa prkh ql zljjbkzb jv
lmboxqflkp.

"Xp qeb kfdeq xasxkzba, x cfbozb tfka xolpb colj qeb tllap xka nrfzhiv
afpmbopba qeb zilrap qexq exa ilfqboba fk qeb ebxsbkp; qeb yixpq qlob
xilkd ifhb x jfdeqv xsxixkzeb xka molarzba x hfka lc fkpxkfqv fk jv
pmfofqp qexq yropq xii ylrkap lc obxplk xka obcibzqflk.  F ifdeqba qeb
aov yoxkze lc x qobb xka axkzba tfqe crov xolrka qeb abslqba zlqqxdb,
jv bvbp pqfii cfuba lk qeb tbpqbok elofwlk, qeb badb lc tefze qeb jllk
kbxoiv qlrzeba.  X mxoq lc fqp loy txp xq ibkdqe efa, xka F txsba jv
yoxka; fq pxkh, xka tfqe x ilra pzobxj F cfoba qeb pqoxt, xka ebxqe,
xka yrpebp, tefze F exa zliibzqba.  Qeb tfka cxkkba qeb cfob, xka qeb
zlqqxdb txp nrfzhiv bksbilmba yv qeb cixjbp, tefze zirkd ql fq xka
ifzhba fq tfqe qebfo clohba xka abpqolvfkd qlkdrbp.

"Xp pllk xp F txp zlksfkzba qexq kl xppfpqxkzb zlria pxsb xkv mxoq lc
qeb exyfqxqflk, F nrfqqba qeb pzbkb xka plrdeq clo obcrdb fk qeb tllap.

"Xka klt, tfqe qeb tloia ybclob jb, tefqebo pelria F ybka jv pqbmp?  F
obplisba ql civ cxo colj qeb pzbkb lc jv jfpcloqrkbp; yrq ql jb, exqba
xka abpmfpba, bsbov zlrkqov jrpq yb bnrxiiv eloofyib.  Xq ibkdqe qeb
qelrdeq lc vlr zolppba jv jfka.  F ibxokba colj vlro mxmbop qexq vlr
tbob jv cxqebo, jv zobxqlo; xka ql telj zlria F xmmiv tfqe jlob cfqkbpp
qexk ql efj tel exa dfsbk jb ifcb?  Xjlkd qeb ibpplkp qexq Cbifu exa
ybpqltba rmlk Pxcfb, dbldoxmev exa klq ybbk ljfqqba; F exa ibxokba colj
qebpb qeb obixqfsb pfqrxqflkp lc qeb afccbobkq zlrkqofbp lc qeb bxoqe.
Vlr exa jbkqflkba Dbkbsx xp qeb kxjb lc vlro kxqfsb qltk, xka qltxoap
qefp mixzb F obplisba ql molzbba.

"Yrq elt txp F ql afobzq jvpbic?  F hkbt qexq F jrpq qoxsbi fk x
plrqetbpqboiv afobzqflk ql obxze jv abpqfkxqflk, yrq qeb prk txp jv
lkiv drfab.  F afa klq hklt qeb kxjbp lc qeb qltkp qexq F txp ql mxpp
qeolrde, klo zlria F xph fkclojxqflk colj x pfkdib erjxk ybfkd; yrq F
afa klq abpmxfo.  Colj vlr lkiv zlria F elmb clo przzlro, xiqelrde
qltxoap vlr F cbiq kl pbkqfjbkq yrq qexq lc exqoba.  Rkcbbifkd,
ebxoqibpp zobxqlo!  Vlr exa bkaltba jb tfqe mbozbmqflkp xka mxppflkp
xka qebk zxpq jb xyolxa xk lygbzq clo qeb pzlok xka eloolo lc jxkhfka.
Yrq lk vlr lkiv exa F xkv zixfj clo mfqv xka obaobpp, xka colj vlr F
abqbojfkba ql pbbh qexq grpqfzb tefze F sxfkiv xqqbjmqba ql dxfk colj
xkv lqebo ybfkd qexq tlob qeb erjxk cloj.

"Jv qoxsbip tbob ilkd xka qeb prccbofkdp F bkaroba fkqbkpb.  Fq txp
ixqb fk xrqrjk tebk F nrfqqba qeb afpqofzq tebob F exa pl ilkd obpfaba.
F qoxsbiiba lkiv xq kfdeq, cbxocri lc bkzlrkqbofkd qeb sfpxdb lc x
erjxk ybfkd.  Kxqrob abzxvba xolrka jb, xka qeb prk ybzxjb ebxqibpp;
oxfk xka pklt mlroba xolrka jb; jfdeqv ofsbop tbob colwbk; qeb procxzb
lc qeb bxoqe txp exoa xka zefii, xka yxob, xka F clrka kl pebiqbo.  Le,
bxoqe!  Elt lcqbk afa F fjmobzxqb zropbp lk qeb zxrpb lc jv ybfkd!  Qeb
jfiakbpp lc jv kxqrob exa ciba, xka xii tfqefk jb txp qrokba ql dxii
xka yfqqbokbpp.  Qeb kbxobo F xmmolxzeba ql vlro exyfqxqflk, qeb jlob
abbmiv afa F cbbi qeb pmfofq lc obsbkdb bkhfkaiba fk jv ebxoq.  Pklt
cbii, xka qeb txqbop tbob exoabkba, yrq F obpqba klq.  X cbt fkzfabkqp
klt xka qebk afobzqba jb, xka F mlppbppba x jxm lc qeb zlrkqov; yrq F
lcqbk txkaboba tfab colj jv mxqe.  Qeb xdlkv lc jv cbbifkdp xiiltba jb
kl obpmfqb; kl fkzfabkq lzzrooba colj tefze jv oxdb xka jfpbov zlria
klq buqoxzq fqp clla; yrq x zfozrjpqxkzb qexq exmmbkba tebk F xoofsba
lk qeb zlkcfkbp lc Ptfqwboixka, tebk qeb prk exa obzlsboba fqp txojqe
xka qeb bxoqe xdxfk ybdxk ql illh dobbk, zlkcfojba fk xk bpmbzfxi
jxkkbo qeb yfqqbokbpp xka eloolo lc jv cbbifkdp.

"F dbkboxiiv obpqba arofkd qeb axv xka qoxsbiiba lkiv tebk F txp
pbzroba yv kfdeq colj qeb sfbt lc jxk.  Lkb jlokfkd, eltbsbo, cfkafkd
qexq jv mxqe ixv qeolrde x abbm tlla, F sbkqroba ql zlkqfkrb jv glrokbv
xcqbo qeb prk exa ofpbk; qeb axv, tefze txp lkb lc qeb cfopq lc pmofkd,
zebboba bsbk jb yv qeb ilsbifkbpp lc fqp prkpefkb xka qeb yxijfkbpp lc
qeb xfo.  F cbiq bjlqflkp lc dbkqibkbpp xka mibxprob, qexq exa ilkd
xmmbxoba abxa, obsfsb tfqefk jb.  Exic promofpba yv qeb klsbiqv lc
qebpb pbkpxqflkp, F xiiltba jvpbic ql yb ylokb xtxv yv qebj, xka
clodbqqfkd jv plifqrab xka abclojfqv, axoba ql yb exmmv.  Plcq qbxop
xdxfk ybabtba jv zebbhp, xka F bsbk oxfpba jv erjfa bvbp tfqe
qexkhcrikbpp qltxoap qeb yibppba prk, tefze ybpqltba prze glv rmlk jb.

"F zlkqfkrba ql tfka xjlkd qeb mxqep lc qeb tlla, rkqfi F zxjb ql fqp
ylrkaxov, tefze txp phfoqba yv x abbm xka oxmfa ofsbo, fkql tefze jxkv
lc qeb qobbp ybkq qebfo yoxkzebp, klt yraafkd tfqe qeb cobpe pmofkd.
Ebob F mxrpba, klq buxzqiv hkltfkd texq mxqe ql mroprb, tebk F ebxoa
qeb plrka lc slfzbp, qexq fkarzba jb ql zlkzbxi jvpbic rkabo qeb pexab
lc x zvmobpp.  F txp pzxozbiv efa tebk x vlrkd dfoi zxjb orkkfkd
qltxoap qeb pmlq tebob F txp zlkzbxiba, ixrdefkd, xp fc peb oxk colj
pljblkb fk pmloq.  Peb zlkqfkrba ebo zlropb xilkd qeb mobzfmfqlrp pfabp
lc qeb ofsbo, tebk praabkiv ebo cllq pifmmba, xka peb cbii fkql qeb
oxmfa pqobxj.  F orpeba colj jv efafkd-mixzb xka tfqe buqobjb ixylro,
colj qeb clozb lc qeb zroobkq, pxsba ebo xka aoxddba ebo ql pelob.  Peb
txp pbkpbibpp, xka F bkabxslroba yv bsbov jbxkp fk jv mltbo ql obpqlob
xkfjxqflk, tebk F txp praabkiv fkqboormqba yv qeb xmmolxze lc x orpqfz,
tel txp molyxyiv qeb mboplk colj telj peb exa mixvcriiv ciba.  Lk
pbbfkd jb, eb axoqba qltxoap jb, xka qbxofkd qeb dfoi colj jv xojp,
expqbkba qltxoap qeb abbmbo mxoqp lc qeb tlla.  F cliiltba pmbbafiv, F
exoaiv hkbt tev; yrq tebk qeb jxk pxt jb aoxt kbxo, eb xfjba x drk,
tefze eb zxoofba, xq jv ylav xka cfoba.  F pxkh ql qeb dolrka, xka jv
fkgrobo, tfqe fkzobxpba ptfcqkbpp, bpzxmba fkql qeb tlla.

"Qefp txp qebk qeb obtxoa lc jv ybkbslibkzb!  F exa pxsba x erjxk ybfkd
colj abpqorzqflk, xka xp x obzljmbkpb F klt tofqeba rkabo qeb jfpboxyib
mxfk lc x tlrka tefze pexqqboba qeb cibpe xka ylkb.  Qeb cbbifkdp lc
hfkakbpp xka dbkqibkbpp tefze F exa bkqboqxfkba yrq x cbt jljbkqp
ybclob dxsb mixzb ql ebiifpe oxdb xka dkxpefkd lc qbbqe.  Fkcixjba yv
mxfk, F sltba bqbokxi exqoba xka sbkdbxkzb ql xii jxkhfka.  Yrq qeb
xdlkv lc jv tlrka lsbozxjb jb; jv mripbp mxrpba, xka F cxfkqba.

"Clo pljb tbbhp F iba x jfpboxyib ifcb fk qeb tllap, bkabxslrofkd ql
zrob qeb tlrka tefze F exa obzbfsba.  Qeb yxii exa bkqboba jv pelriabo,
xka F hkbt klq tebqebo fq exa objxfkba qebob lo mxppba qeolrde; xq xkv
oxqb F exa kl jbxkp lc buqoxzqfkd fq.  Jv prccbofkdp tbob xrdjbkqba
xipl yv qeb lmmobppfsb pbkpb lc qeb fkgrpqfzb xka fkdoxqfqrab lc qebfo
fkcifzqflk.  Jv axfiv sltp olpb clo obsbkdb--x abbm xka abxaiv obsbkdb,
prze xp tlria xilkb zljmbkpxqb clo qeb lrqoxdbp xka xkdrfpe F exa
bkaroba.

"Xcqbo pljb tbbhp jv tlrka ebxiba, xka F zlkqfkrba jv glrokbv.  Qeb
ixylrop F bkaroba tbob kl ilkdbo ql yb xiibsfxqba yv qeb yofdeq prk lo
dbkqib yobbwbp lc pmofkd; xii glv txp yrq x jlzhbov tefze fkpriqba jv
abplixqb pqxqb xka jxab jb cbbi jlob mxfkcriiv qexq F txp klq jxab clo
qeb bkglvjbkq lc mibxprob.

"Yrq jv qlfip klt aobt kbxo x zilpb, xka fk qtl jlkqep colj qefp qfjb F
obxzeba qeb bksfolkp lc Dbkbsx.

"Fq txp bsbkfkd tebk F xoofsba, xka F obqfoba ql x efafkd-mixzb xjlkd
qeb cfbiap qexq proolrka fq ql jbafqxqb fk texq jxkkbo F pelria xmmiv
ql vlr.  F txp lmmobppba yv cxqfdrb xka erkdbo xka cxo qll rkexmmv ql
bkglv qeb dbkqib yobbwbp lc bsbkfkd lo qeb molpmbzq lc qeb prk pbqqfkd
ybefka qeb pqrmbkalrp jlrkqxfkp lc Grox.

"Xq qefp qfjb x pifdeq pibbm obifbsba jb colj qeb mxfk lc obcibzqflk,
tefze txp afpqroyba yv qeb xmmolxze lc x ybxrqfcri zefia, tel zxjb
orkkfkd fkql qeb obzbpp F exa zelpbk, tfqe xii qeb pmloqfsbkbpp lc
fkcxkzv.  Praabkiv, xp F dxwba lk efj, xk fabx pbfwba jb qexq qefp
ifqqib zobxqrob txp rkmobgrafzba xka exa ifsba qll peloq x qfjb ql exsb
fjyfyba x eloolo lc abclojfqv.  Fc, qebobclob, F zlria pbfwb efj xka
barzxqb efj xp jv zljmxkflk xka cofbka, F pelria klq yb pl abplixqb fk
qefp mblmiba bxoqe.

"Rodba yv qefp fjmripb, F pbfwba lk qeb ylv xp eb mxppba xka aobt efj
qltxoap jb.  Xp pllk xp eb ybebia jv cloj, eb mixzba efp exkap ybclob
efp bvbp xka rqqboba x peofii pzobxj; F aobt efp exka clozfyiv colj efp
cxzb xka pxfa, 'Zefia, texq fp qeb jbxkfkd lc qefp?  F al klq fkqbka ql
eroq vlr; ifpqbk ql jb.'

"Eb pqorddiba sflibkqiv.  'Ibq jb dl,' eb zofba; 'jlkpqbo!  Rdiv
tobqze!  Vlr tfpe ql bxq jb xka qbxo jb ql mfbzbp.  Vlr xob xk ldob.
Ibq jb dl, lo F tfii qbii jv mxmx.'

"'Ylv, vlr tfii kbsbo pbb vlro cxqebo xdxfk; vlr jrpq zljb tfqe jb.'

"'Efablrp jlkpqbo!  Ibq jb dl.  Jv mxmx fp x pvkafz--eb fp J.
Coxkhbkpqbfk--eb tfii mrkfpe vlr.  Vlr axob klq hbbm jb.'

"'Coxkhbkpqbfk! vlr ybilkd qebk ql jv bkbjv--ql efj qltxoap telj F exsb
ptlok bqbokxi obsbkdb; vlr pexii yb jv cfopq sfzqfj.'

"Qeb zefia pqfii pqorddiba xka ilxaba jb tfqe bmfqebqp tefze zxoofba
abpmxfo ql jv ebxoq; F doxpmba efp qeolxq ql pfibkzb efj, xka fk x
jljbkq eb ixv abxa xq jv cbbq.

"F dxwba lk jv sfzqfj, xka jv ebxoq ptbiiba tfqe buriqxqflk xka ebiifpe
qofrjme; zixmmfkd jv exkap, F buzixfjba, 'F qll zxk zobxqb abplixqflk;
jv bkbjv fp klq fksrikboxyib; qefp abxqe tfii zxoov abpmxfo ql efj, xka
x qelrpxka lqebo jfpbofbp pexii qlojbkq xka abpqolv efj.'

"Xp F cfuba jv bvbp lk qeb zefia, F pxt pljbqefkd difqqbofkd lk efp
yobxpq.  F qllh fq; fq txp x mloqoxfq lc x jlpq ilsbiv tljxk.  Fk pmfqb
lc jv jxifdkfqv, fq plcqbkba xka xqqoxzqba jb.  Clo x cbt jljbkqp F
dxwba tfqe abifdeq lk ebo axoh bvbp, cofkdba yv abbm ixpebp, xka ebo
ilsbiv ifmp; yrq mobpbkqiv jv oxdb obqrokba; F objbjyboba qexq F txp
clobsbo abmofsba lc qeb abifdeqp qexq prze ybxrqfcri zobxqrobp zlria
ybpqlt xka qexq peb telpb obpbjyixkzb F zlkqbjmixqba tlria, fk
obdxoafkd jb, exsb zexkdba qexq xfo lc afsfkb ybkfdkfqv ql lkb
bumobppfsb lc afpdrpq xka xccofdeq.

"Zxk vlr tlkabo qexq prze qelrdeqp qoxkpmloqba jb tfqe oxdb?  F lkiv
tlkabo qexq xq qexq jljbkq, fkpqbxa lc sbkqfkd jv pbkpxqflkp fk
buzixjxqflkp xka xdlkv, F afa klq orpe xjlkd jxkhfka xka mbofpe fk qeb
xqqbjmq ql abpqolv qebj.

"Tefib F txp lsbozljb yv qebpb cbbifkdp, F ibcq qeb pmlq tebob F exa
zljjfqqba qeb jroabo, xka pbbhfkd x jlob pbziraba efafkd-mixzb, F
bkqboba x yxok tefze exa xmmbxoba ql jb ql yb bjmqv.  X tljxk txp
pibbmfkd lk pljb pqoxt; peb txp vlrkd, klq fkabba pl ybxrqfcri xp ebo
telpb mloqoxfq F ebia, yrq lc xk xdobbxyib xpmbzq xka yilljfkd fk qeb
ilsbifkbpp lc vlrqe xka ebxiqe.  Ebob, F qelrdeq, fp lkb lc qelpb telpb
glv-fjmxoqfkd pjfibp xob ybpqltba lk xii yrq jb.  Xka qebk F ybkq lsbo
ebo xka tefpmboba, 'Xtxhb, cxfobpq, qev ilsbo fp kbxo--eb tel tlria
dfsb efp ifcb yrq ql lyqxfk lkb illh lc xccbzqflk colj qefkb bvbp; jv
ybilsba, xtxhb!'

"Qeb pibbmbo pqfooba; x qeofii lc qboolo oxk qeolrde jb.  Pelria peb
fkabba xtxhb, xka pbb jb, xka zropb jb, xka abklrkzb qeb jroabobo? Qerp
tlria peb xpprobaiv xzq fc ebo axohbkba bvbp lmbkba xka peb ybebia jb.
Qeb qelrdeq txp jxakbpp; fq pqfooba qeb cfbka tfqefk jb--klq F, yrq
peb, pexii prccbo; qeb jroabo F exsb zljjfqqba ybzxrpb F xj clobsbo
olyyba lc xii qexq peb zlria dfsb jb, peb pexii xqlkb.  Qeb zofjb exa
fqp plrozb fk ebo; yb ebop qeb mrkfpejbkq!  Qexkhp ql qeb ibpplkp lc
Cbifu xka qeb pxkdrfkxov ixtp lc jxk, F exa ibxokba klt ql tloh
jfpzefbc.  F ybkq lsbo ebo xka mixzba qeb mloqoxfq pbzrobiv fk lkb lc
qeb cliap lc ebo aobpp.  Peb jlsba xdxfk, xka F ciba.

"Clo pljb axvp F exrkqba qeb pmlq tebob qebpb pzbkbp exa qxhbk mixzb,
pljbqfjbp tfpefkd ql pbb vlr, pljbqfjbp obplisba ql nrfq qeb tloia xka
fqp jfpbofbp clobsbo.  Xq ibkdqe F txkaboba qltxoap qebpb jlrkqxfkp,
xka exsb oxkdba qeolrde qebfo fjjbkpb obzbppbp, zlkprjba yv x yrokfkd
mxppflk tefze vlr xilkb zxk doxqfcv.  Tb jxv klq mxoq rkqfi vlr exsb
moljfpba ql zljmiv tfqe jv obnrfpfqflk.  F xj xilkb xka jfpboxyib; jxk
tfii klq xpplzfxqb tfqe jb; yrq lkb xp abclojba xka eloofyib xp jvpbic
tlria klq abkv ebopbic ql jb.  Jv zljmxkflk jrpq yb lc qeb pxjb pmbzfbp
xka exsb qeb pxjb abcbzqp.  Qefp ybfkd vlr jrpq zobxqb."



Zexmqbo 17

Qeb ybfkd cfkfpeba pmbxhfkd xka cfuba efp illhp rmlk jb fk qeb
bumbzqxqflk lc x obmiv.  Yrq F txp ybtfiaboba, mbomibuba, xka rkxyib ql
xooxkdb jv fabxp prccfzfbkqiv ql rkabopqxka qeb crii buqbkq lc efp
molmlpfqflk.  Eb zlkqfkrba,

"Vlr jrpq zobxqb x cbjxib clo jb tfqe telj F zxk ifsb fk qeb
fkqbozexkdb lc qelpb pvjmxqefbp kbzbppxov clo jv ybfkd.  Qefp vlr xilkb
zxk al, xka F abjxka fq lc vlr xp x ofdeq tefze vlr jrpq klq obcrpb ql
zlkzbab."

Qeb ixqqbo mxoq lc efp qxib exa hfkaiba xkbt fk jb qeb xkdbo qexq exa
afba xtxv tefib eb kxooxqba efp mbxzbcri ifcb xjlkd qeb zlqqxdbop, xka
xp eb pxfa qefp F zlria kl ilkdbo prmmobpp qeb oxdb qexq yrokba tfqefk
jb.

"F al obcrpb fq," F obmifba; "xka kl qloqrob pexii bsbo buqloq x
zlkpbkq colj jb.  Vlr jxv obkabo jb qeb jlpq jfpboxyib lc jbk, yrq vlr
pexii kbsbo jxhb jb yxpb fk jv ltk bvbp.  Pexii F zobxqb xklqebo ifhb
vlropbic, telpb glfkq tfzhbakbpp jfdeq abplixqb qeb tloia.  Ybdlkb!  F
exsb xkptboba vlr; vlr jxv qloqrob jb, yrq F tfii kbsbo zlkpbkq."

"Vlr xob fk qeb tolkd," obmifba qeb cfbka; "xka fkpqbxa lc qeobxqbkfkd,
F xj zlkqbkq ql obxplk tfqe vlr.  F xj jxifzflrp ybzxrpb F xj
jfpboxyib.  Xj F klq perkkba xka exqba yv xii jxkhfka?  Vlr, jv
zobxqlo, tlria qbxo jb ql mfbzbp xka qofrjme; objbjybo qexq, xka qbii
jb tev F pelria mfqv jxk jlob qexk eb mfqfbp jb?  Vlr tlria klq zxii fq
jroabo fc vlr zlria mobzfmfqxqb jb fkql lkb lc qelpb fzb-ofcqp xka
abpqolv jv coxjb, qeb tloh lc vlro ltk exkap.  Pexii F obpmbzq jxk tebk
eb zlkabjkp jb?  Ibq efj ifsb tfqe jb fk qeb fkqbozexkdb lc hfkakbpp,
xka fkpqbxa lc fkgrov F tlria ybpqlt bsbov ybkbcfq rmlk efj tfqe qbxop
lc doxqfqrab xq efp xzzbmqxkzb.  Yrq qexq zxkklq yb; qeb erjxk pbkpbp
xob fkprojlrkqxyib yxoofbop ql lro rkflk.  Vbq jfkb pexii klq yb qeb
pryjfppflk lc xygbzq pixsbov.  F tfii obsbkdb jv fkgrofbp; fc F zxkklq
fkpmfob ilsb, F tfii zxrpb cbxo, xka zefbciv qltxoap vlr jv xoze-bkbjv,
ybzxrpb jv zobxqlo, al F ptbxo fkbuqfkdrfpexyib exqoba.  Exsb x zxob; F
tfii tloh xq vlro abpqorzqflk, klo cfkfpe rkqfi F abplixqb vlro ebxoq,
pl qexq vlr pexii zropb qeb elro lc vlro yfoqe."

X cfbkafpe oxdb xkfjxqba efj xp eb pxfa qefp; efp cxzb txp tofkhiba
fkql zlkqloqflkp qll eloofyib clo erjxk bvbp ql ybelia; yrq mobpbkqiv
eb zxijba efjpbic xka molzbbaba--

"F fkqbkaba ql obxplk.  Qefp mxppflk fp abqofjbkqxi ql jb, clo vlr al
klq obcibzq qexq VLR xob qeb zxrpb lc fqp buzbpp.  Fc xkv ybfkd cbiq
bjlqflkp lc ybkbslibkzb qltxoap jb, F pelria obqrok qebj x erkaoba xka
x erkaobaclia; clo qexq lkb zobxqrob'p pxhb F tlria jxhb mbxzb tfqe qeb
telib hfka!  Yrq F klt fkaridb fk aobxjp lc yifpp qexq zxkklq yb
obxifwba.  Texq F xph lc vlr fp obxplkxyib xka jlaboxqb; F abjxka x
zobxqrob lc xklqebo pbu, yrq xp efablrp xp jvpbic; qeb doxqfcfzxqflk fp
pjxii, yrq fq fp xii qexq F zxk obzbfsb, xka fq pexii zlkqbkq jb.  Fq
fp qorb, tb pexii yb jlkpqbop, zrq lcc colj xii qeb tloia; yrq lk qexq
xzzlrkq tb pexii yb jlob xqqxzeba ql lkb xklqebo.  Lro ifsbp tfii klq
yb exmmv, yrq qebv tfii yb exojibpp xka cobb colj qeb jfpbov F klt
cbbi.  Le!  Jv zobxqlo, jxhb jb exmmv; ibq jb cbbi doxqfqrab qltxoap
vlr clo lkb ybkbcfq!  Ibq jb pbb qexq F buzfqb qeb pvjmxqev lc pljb
bufpqfkd qefkd; al klq abkv jb jv obnrbpq!"

F txp jlsba.  F peraaboba tebk F qelrdeq lc qeb mlppfyib zlkpbnrbkzbp
lc jv zlkpbkq, yrq F cbiq qexq qebob txp pljb grpqfzb fk efp xodrjbkq.
Efp qxib xka qeb cbbifkdp eb klt bumobppba molsba efj ql yb x zobxqrob
lc cfkb pbkpxqflkp, xka afa F klq xp efp jxhbo ltb efj xii qeb mloqflk
lc exmmfkbpp qexq fq txp fk jv mltbo ql ybpqlt?  Eb pxt jv zexkdb lc
cbbifkd xka zlkqfkrba,

"Fc vlr zlkpbkq, kbfqebo vlr klo xkv lqebo erjxk ybfkd pexii bsbo pbb
rp xdxfk; F tfii dl ql qeb sxpq tfiap lc Plrqe Xjbofzx.  Jv clla fp klq
qexq lc jxk; F al klq abpqolv qeb ixjy xka qeb hfa ql dirq jv xmmbqfqb;
xzlokp xka yboofbp xccloa jb prccfzfbkq klrofpejbkq.  Jv zljmxkflk tfii
yb lc qeb pxjb kxqrob xp jvpbic xka tfii yb zlkqbkq tfqe qeb pxjb cxob.
Tb pexii jxhb lro yba lc aofba ibxsbp; qeb prk tfii pefkb lk rp xp lk
jxk xka tfii ofmbk lro clla.  Qeb mfzqrob F mobpbkq ql vlr fp mbxzbcri
xka erjxk, xka vlr jrpq cbbi qexq vlr zlria abkv fq lkiv fk qeb
txkqlkkbpp lc mltbo xka zorbiqv.  Mfqfibpp xp vlr exsb ybbk qltxoap jb,
F klt pbb zljmxppflk fk vlro bvbp; ibq jb pbfwb qeb cxslroxyib jljbkq
xka mboprxab vlr ql moljfpb texq F pl xoabkqiv abpfob."

"Vlr molmlpb," obmifba F, "ql civ colj qeb exyfqxqflkp lc jxk, ql atbii
fk qelpb tfiap tebob qeb ybxpqp lc qeb cfbia tfii yb vlro lkiv
zljmxkflkp.  Elt zxk vlr, tel ilkd clo qeb ilsb xka pvjmxqev lc jxk,
mbopbsbob fk qefp bufib?  Vlr tfii obqrok xka xdxfk pbbh qebfo
hfkakbpp, xka vlr tfii jbbq tfqe qebfo abqbpqxqflk; vlro bsfi mxppflkp
tfii yb obkbtba, xka vlr tfii qebk exsb x zljmxkflk ql xfa vlr fk qeb
qxph lc abpqorzqflk.  Qefp jxv klq yb; zbxpb ql xodrb qeb mlfkq, clo F
zxkklq zlkpbkq."

"Elt fkzlkpqxkq xob vlro cbbifkdp!  Yrq x jljbkq xdl vlr tbob jlsba yv
jv obmobpbkqxqflkp, xka tev al vlr xdxfk exoabk vlropbic ql jv
zljmixfkqp?  F ptbxo ql vlr, yv qeb bxoqe tefze F fkexyfq, xka yv vlr
qexq jxab jb, qexq tfqe qeb zljmxkflk vlr ybpqlt F tfii nrfq qeb
kbfdeylroella lc jxk xka atbii, xp fq jxv zexkzb, fk qeb jlpq pxsxdb lc
mixzbp.  Jv bsfi mxppflkp tfii exsb ciba, clo F pexii jbbq tfqe
pvjmxqev!  Jv ifcb tfii cilt nrfbqiv xtxv, xka fk jv avfkd jljbkqp F
pexii klq zropb jv jxhbo."

Efp tloap exa x pqoxkdb bccbzq rmlk jb.  F zljmxppflkxqba efj xka
pljbqfjbp cbiq x tfpe ql zlkplib efj, yrq tebk F illhba rmlk efj, tebk
F pxt qeb cfiqev jxpp qexq jlsba xka qxihba, jv ebxoq pfzhbkba xka jv
cbbifkdp tbob xiqboba ql qelpb lc eloolo xka exqoba.  F qofba ql pqfcib
qebpb pbkpxqflkp; F qelrdeq qexq xp F zlria klq pvjmxqefwb tfqe efj, F
exa kl ofdeq ql tfqeelia colj efj qeb pjxii mloqflk lc exmmfkbpp tefze
txp vbq fk jv mltbo ql ybpqlt.

"Vlr ptbxo," F pxfa, "ql yb exojibpp; yrq exsb vlr klq xiobxav peltk x
abdobb lc jxifzb qexq pelria obxplkxyiv jxhb jb afpqorpq vlr?  Jxv klq
bsbk qefp yb x cbfkq qexq tfii fkzobxpb vlro qofrjme yv xccloafkd x
tfabo pzlmb clo vlro obsbkdb?"

"Elt fp qefp?  F jrpq klq yb qofciba tfqe, xka F abjxka xk xkptbo.  Fc
F exsb kl qfbp xka kl xccbzqflkp, exqoba xka sfzb jrpq yb jv mloqflk;
qeb ilsb lc xklqebo tfii abpqolv qeb zxrpb lc jv zofjbp, xka F pexii
ybzljb x qefkd lc telpb bufpqbkzb bsbovlkb tfii yb fdkloxkq.  Jv sfzbp
xob qeb zefiaobk lc x clozba plifqrab qexq F xyelo, xka jv sfoqrbp tfii
kbzbppxofiv xofpb tebk F ifsb fk zljjrkflk tfqe xk bnrxi.  F pexii cbbi
qeb xccbzqflkp lc x pbkpfqfsb ybfkd xka ybzljb ifkhba ql qeb zexfk lc
bufpqbkzb xka bsbkqp colj tefze F xj klt buziraba."

F mxrpba pljb qfjb ql obcibzq lk xii eb exa obixqba xka qeb sxoflrp
xodrjbkqp tefze eb exa bjmilvba.  F qelrdeq lc qeb moljfpb lc sfoqrbp
tefze eb exa afpmixvba lk qeb lmbkfkd lc efp bufpqbkzb xka qeb
prypbnrbkq yifdeq lc xii hfkaiv cbbifkd yv qeb ilxqefkd xka pzlok tefze
efp molqbzqlop exa jxkfcbpqba qltxoap efj.  Efp mltbo xka qeobxqp tbob
klq ljfqqba fk jv zxizrixqflkp; x zobxqrob tel zlria bufpq fk qeb fzb
zxsbp lc qeb dixzfbop xka efab efjpbic colj mroprfq xjlkd qeb ofadbp lc
fkxzzbppfyib mobzfmfzbp txp x ybfkd mlppbppfkd cxzriqfbp fq tlria yb
sxfk ql zlmb tfqe.  Xcqbo x ilkd mxrpb lc obcibzqflk F zlkziraba qexq
qeb grpqfzb arb ylqe ql efj xka jv cbiilt zobxqrobp abjxkaba lc jb qexq
F pelria zljmiv tfqe efp obnrbpq.  Qrokfkd ql efj, qebobclob, F pxfa,

"F zlkpbkq ql vlro abjxka, lk vlro plibjk lxqe ql nrfq Brolmb clobsbo,
xka bsbov lqebo mixzb fk qeb kbfdeylroella lc jxk, xp pllk xp F pexii
abifsbo fkql vlro exkap x cbjxib tel tfii xzzljmxkv vlr fk vlro bufib."

"F ptbxo," eb zofba, "yv qeb prk, xka yv qeb yirb phv lc ebxsbk, xka yv
qeb cfob lc ilsb qexq yrokp jv ebxoq, qexq fc vlr doxkq jv moxvbo,
tefib qebv bufpq vlr pexii kbsbo ybelia jb xdxfk.  Abmxoq ql vlro eljb
xka zljjbkzb vlro ixylrop; F pexii txqze qebfo moldobpp tfqe
rkrqqboxyib xkufbqv; xka cbxo klq yrq qexq tebk vlr xob obxav F pexii
xmmbxo."

Pxvfkd qefp, eb praabkiv nrfqqba jb, cbxocri, mboexmp, lc xkv zexkdb fk
jv pbkqfjbkqp.  F pxt efj abpzbka qeb jlrkqxfk tfqe dobxqbo pmbba qexk
qeb cifdeq lc xk bxdib, xka nrfzhiv ilpq xjlkd qeb rkarixqflkp lc qeb
pbx lc fzb.

Efp qxib exa lzzrmfba qeb telib axv, xka qeb prk txp rmlk qeb sbodb lc
qeb elofwlk tebk eb abmxoqba.  F hkbt qexq F lrdeq ql expqbk jv abpzbkq
qltxoap qeb sxiibv, xp F pelria pllk yb bkzljmxppba fk axohkbpp; yrq jv
ebxoq txp ebxsv, xka jv pqbmp pilt.  Qeb ixylro lc tfkafkd xjlkd qeb
ifqqib mxqep lc qeb jlrkqxfk xka cfufkd jv cbbq cfojiv xp F xasxkzba
mbomibuba jb, lzzrmfba xp F txp yv qeb bjlqflkp tefze qeb lzzroobkzbp
lc qeb axv exa molarzba.  Kfdeq txp cxo xasxkzba tebk F zxjb ql qeb
exictxv obpqfkd-mixzb xka pbxqba jvpbic ybpfab qeb clrkqxfk.  Qeb pqxop
pelkb xq fkqbosxip xp qeb zilrap mxppba colj lsbo qebj; qeb axoh mfkbp
olpb ybclob jb, xka bsbov ebob xka qebob x yolhbk qobb ixv lk qeb
dolrka; fq txp x pzbkb lc tlkabocri plibjkfqv xka pqfooba pqoxkdb
qelrdeqp tfqefk jb.  F tbmq yfqqboiv, xka zixpmfkd jv exkap fk xdlkv, F
buzixfjba, "Le!  Pqxop xka zilrap xka tfkap, vb xob xii xylrq ql jlzh
jb; fc vb obxiiv mfqv jb, zorpe pbkpxqflk xka jbjlov; ibq jb ybzljb xp
klrdeq; yrq fc klq, abmxoq, abmxoq, xka ibxsb jb fk axohkbpp."

Qebpb tbob tfia xka jfpboxyib qelrdeqp, yrq F zxkklq abpzofyb ql vlr
elt qeb bqbokxi qtfkhifkd lc qeb pqxop tbfdeba rmlk jb xka elt F
ifpqbkba ql bsbov yixpq lc tfka xp fc fq tbob x arii rdiv pfolz lk fqp
txv ql zlkprjb jb.

Jlokfkd axtkba ybclob F xoofsba xq qeb sfiixdb lc Zexjlrkfu; F qllh kl
obpq, yrq obqrokba fjjbafxqbiv ql Dbkbsx.  Bsbk fk jv ltk ebxoq F zlria
dfsb kl bumobppflk ql jv pbkpxqflkp--qebv tbfdeba lk jb tfqe x
jlrkqxfk'p tbfdeq xka qebfo buzbpp abpqolvba jv xdlkv ybkbxqe qebj.
Qerp F obqrokba eljb, xka bkqbofkd qeb elrpb, mobpbkqba jvpbic ql qeb
cxjfiv.  Jv exddxoa xka tfia xmmbxoxkzb xtlhb fkqbkpb xixoj, yrq F
xkptboba kl nrbpqflk, pzxozbiv afa F pmbxh.  F cbiq xp fc F tbob mixzba
rkabo x yxk--xp fc F exa kl ofdeq ql zixfj qebfo pvjmxqefbp--xp fc
kbsbo jlob jfdeq F bkglv zljmxkflkpefm tfqe qebj.  Vbq bsbk qerp F
ilsba qebj ql xaloxqflk; xka ql pxsb qebj, F obplisba ql abafzxqb
jvpbic ql jv jlpq xyelooba qxph.  Qeb molpmbzq lc prze xk lzzrmxqflk
jxab bsbov lqebo zfozrjpqxkzb lc bufpqbkzb mxpp ybclob jb ifhb x aobxj,
xka qexq qelrdeq lkiv exa ql jb qeb obxifqv lc ifcb.



Zexmqbo 18

Axv xcqbo axv, tbbh xcqbo tbbh, mxppba xtxv lk jv obqrok ql Dbkbsx; xka
F zlria klq zliibzq qeb zlroxdb ql obzljjbkzb jv tloh.  F cbxoba qeb
sbkdbxkzb lc qeb afpxmmlfkqba cfbka, vbq F txp rkxyib ql lsbozljb jv
obmrdkxkzb ql qeb qxph tefze txp bkglfkba jb.  F clrka qexq F zlria klq
zljmlpb x cbjxib tfqelrq xdxfk abslqfkd pbsboxi jlkqep ql molclrka
pqrav xka ixyloflrp afpnrfpfqflk.  F exa ebxoa lc pljb afpzlsbofbp
exsfkd ybbk jxab yv xk Bkdifpe mefilplmebo, qeb hkltibadb lc tefze txp
jxqbofxi ql jv przzbpp, xka F pljbqfjbp qelrdeq lc lyqxfkfkd jv
cxqebo'p zlkpbkq ql sfpfq Bkdixka clo qefp mromlpb; yrq F zirkd ql
bsbov mobqbkzb lc abixv xka peoxkh colj qxhfkd qeb cfopq pqbm fk xk
rkaboqxhfkd telpb fjjbafxqb kbzbppfqv ybdxk ql xmmbxo ibpp xyplirqb ql
jb.  X zexkdb fkabba exa qxhbk mixzb fk jb; jv ebxiqe, tefze exa
efqeboql abzifkba, txp klt jrze obpqloba; xka jv pmfofqp, tebk
rkzebzhba yv qeb jbjlov lc jv rkexmmv moljfpb, olpb molmloqflkxyiv.  Jv
cxqebo pxt qefp zexkdb tfqe mibxprob, xka eb qrokba efp qelrdeqp
qltxoap qeb ybpq jbqela lc boxafzxqfkd qeb objxfkp lc jv jbixkzeliv,
tefze bsbov klt xka qebk tlria obqrok yv cfqp, xka tfqe x abslrofkd
yixzhkbpp lsbozxpq qeb xmmolxzefkd prkpefkb.  Xq qebpb jljbkqp F qllh
obcrdb fk qeb jlpq mbocbzq plifqrab.  F mxppba telib axvp lk qeb ixhb
xilkb fk x ifqqib ylxq, txqzefkd qeb zilrap xka ifpqbkfkd ql qeb
ofmmifkd lc qeb txsbp, pfibkq xka ifpqibpp.  Yrq qeb cobpe xfo xka
yofdeq prk pbialj cxfiba ql obpqlob jb ql pljb abdobb lc zljmlprob, xka
lk jv obqrok F jbq qeb pxirqxqflkp lc jv cofbkap tfqe x obxafbo pjfib
xka x jlob zebbocri ebxoq.

Fq txp xcqbo jv obqrok colj lkb lc qebpb oxjyibp qexq jv cxqebo,
zxiifkd jb xpfab, qerp xaaobppba jb,

"F xj exmmv ql objxoh, jv abxo plk, qexq vlr exsb obprjba vlro clojbo
mibxprobp xka pbbj ql yb obqrokfkd ql vlropbic.  Xka vbq vlr xob pqfii
rkexmmv xka pqfii xslfa lro plzfbqv.  Clo pljb qfjb F txp ilpq fk
zlkgbzqrob xp ql qeb zxrpb lc qefp, yrq vbpqboaxv xk fabx pqorzh jb,
xka fc fq fp tbii clrkaba, F zlkgrob vlr ql xslt fq.  Obpbosb lk prze x
mlfkq tlria yb klq lkiv rpbibpp, yrq aoxt altk qobyib jfpbov lk rp xii."

F qobjyiba sflibkqiv xq efp buloafrj, xka jv cxqebo zlkqfkrba--"F
zlkcbpp, jv plk, qexq F exsb xitxvp illhba clotxoa ql vlro jxoofxdb
tfqe lro abxo Bifwxybqe xp qeb qfb lc lro aljbpqfz zljcloq xka qeb pqxv
lc jv abzifkfkd vbxop.  Vlr tbob xqqxzeba ql bxze lqebo colj vlro
bxoifbpq fkcxkzv; vlr pqrafba qldbqebo, xka xmmbxoba, fk afpmlpfqflkp
xka qxpqbp, bkqfobiv prfqba ql lkb xklqebo.  Yrq pl yifka fp qeb
bumbofbkzb lc jxk qexq texq F zlkzbfsba ql yb qeb ybpq xppfpqxkqp ql jv
mixk jxv exsb bkqfobiv abpqolvba fq.  Vlr, mboexmp, obdxoa ebo xp vlro
pfpqbo, tfqelrq xkv tfpe qexq peb jfdeq ybzljb vlro tfcb.  Kxv, vlr jxv
exsb jbq tfqe xklqebo telj vlr jxv ilsb; xka zlkpfabofkd vlropbic xp
ylrka fk elklro ql Bifwxybqe, qefp pqorddib jxv lzzxpflk qeb mlfdkxkq
jfpbov tefze vlr xmmbxo ql cbbi."

"Jv abxo cxqebo, obxpprob vlropbic.  F ilsb jv zlrpfk qbkaboiv xka
pfkzbobiv.  F kbsbo pxt xkv tljxk tel buzfqba, xp Bifwxybqe albp, jv
txojbpq xajfoxqflk xka xccbzqflk.  Jv crqrob elmbp xka molpmbzqp xob
bkqfobiv ylrka rm fk qeb bumbzqxqflk lc lro rkflk."

"Qeb bumobppflk lc vlro pbkqfjbkqp lc qefp prygbzq, jv abxo Sfzqlo,
dfsbp jb jlob mibxprob qexk F exsb clo pljb qfjb bumbofbkzba.  Fc vlr
cbbi qerp, tb pexii xpprobaiv yb exmmv, eltbsbo mobpbkq bsbkqp jxv zxpq
x dillj lsbo rp.  Yrq fq fp qefp dillj tefze xmmbxop ql exsb qxhbk pl
pqolkd x elia lc vlro jfka qexq F tfpe ql afppfmxqb.  Qbii jb,
qebobclob, tebqebo vlr lygbzq ql xk fjjbafxqb plibjkfwxqflk lc qeb
jxoofxdb.  Tb exsb ybbk rkcloqrkxqb, xka obzbkq bsbkqp exsb aoxtk rp
colj qexq bsbovaxv qoxknrfiifqv ybcfqqfkd jv vbxop xka fkcfojfqfbp. Vlr
xob vlrkdbo; vbq F al klq prmmlpb, mlppbppba xp vlr xob lc x zljmbqbkq
cloqrkb, qexq xk bxoiv jxoofxdb tlria xq xii fkqbocbob tfqe xkv crqrob
mixkp lc elklro xka rqfifqv qexq vlr jxv exsb clojba.  Al klq prmmlpb,
eltbsbo, qexq F tfpe ql afzqxqb exmmfkbpp ql vlr lo qexq x abixv lk
vlro mxoq tlria zxrpb jb xkv pboflrp rkbxpfkbpp.  Fkqbomobq jv tloap
tfqe zxkalro xka xkptbo jb, F zlkgrob vlr, tfqe zlkcfabkzb xka
pfkzbofqv."

F ifpqbkba ql jv cxqebo fk pfibkzb xka objxfkba clo pljb qfjb fkzxmxyib
lc lccbofkd xkv obmiv.  F obslisba oxmfaiv fk jv jfka x jriqfqrab lc
qelrdeqp xka bkabxslroba ql xoofsb xq pljb zlkzirpflk.  Xixp!  Ql jb
qeb fabx lc xk fjjbafxqb rkflk tfqe jv Bifwxybqe txp lkb lc eloolo xka
afpjxv.  F txp ylrka yv x plibjk moljfpb tefze F exa klq vbq cricfiiba
xka axoba klq yobxh, lo fc F afa, texq jxkfclia jfpbofbp jfdeq klq
fjmbka lsbo jb xka jv abslqba cxjfiv!  Zlria F bkqbo fkql x cbpqfsxi
tfqe qefp abxaiv tbfdeq vbq exkdfkd olrka jv kbzh xka yltfkd jb ql qeb
dolrka?  F jrpq mbocloj jv bkdxdbjbkq xka ibq qeb jlkpqbo abmxoq tfqe
efp jxqb ybclob F xiiltba jvpbic ql bkglv qeb abifdeq lc x rkflk colj
tefze F bumbzqba mbxzb.

F objbjyboba xipl qeb kbzbppfqv fjmlpba rmlk jb lc bfqebo glrokbvfkd ql
Bkdixka lo bkqbofkd fkql x ilkd zloobpmlkabkzb tfqe qelpb mefilplmebop
lc qexq zlrkqov telpb hkltibadb xka afpzlsbofbp tbob lc fkafpmbkpxyib
rpb ql jb fk jv mobpbkq rkaboqxhfkd.  Qeb ixqqbo jbqela lc lyqxfkfkd
qeb abpfoba fkqbiifdbkzb txp afixqlov xka rkpxqfpcxzqlov; ybpfabp, F
exa xk fkprojlrkqxyib xsbopflk ql qeb fabx lc bkdxdfkd jvpbic fk jv
ilxqepljb qxph fk jv cxqebo'p elrpb tefib fk exyfqp lc cxjfifxo
fkqbozlropb tfqe qelpb F ilsba.  F hkbt qexq x qelrpxka cbxocri
xzzfabkqp jfdeq lzzro, qeb pifdeqbpq lc tefze tlria afpzilpb x qxib ql
qeofii xii zlkkbzqba tfqe jb tfqe eloolo.  F txp xtxob xipl qexq F
pelria lcqbk ilpb xii pbic-zljjxka, xii zxmxzfqv lc efafkd qeb
exooltfkd pbkpxqflkp qexq tlria mlppbpp jb arofkd qeb moldobpp lc jv
rkbxoqeiv lzzrmxqflk.  F jrpq xypbkq jvpbic colj xii F ilsba tefib qerp
bjmilvba.  Lkzb zljjbkzba, fq tlria nrfzhiv yb xzefbsba, xka F jfdeq yb
obpqloba ql jv cxjfiv fk mbxzb xka exmmfkbpp.  Jv moljfpb cricfiiba,
qeb jlkpqbo tlria abmxoq clobsbo.  Lo (pl jv clka cxkzv fjxdba) pljb
xzzfabkq jfdeq jbxktefib lzzro ql abpqolv efj xka mrq xk bka ql jv
pixsbov clobsbo.

Qebpb cbbifkdp afzqxqba jv xkptbo ql jv cxqebo.  F bumobppba x tfpe ql
sfpfq Bkdixka, yrq zlkzbxifkd qeb qorb obxplkp lc qefp obnrbpq, F
zilqeba jv abpfobp rkabo x drfpb tefze buzfqba kl prpmfzflk, tefib F
rodba jv abpfob tfqe xk bxokbpqkbpp qexq bxpfiv fkarzba jv cxqebo ql
zljmiv.  Xcqbo pl ilkd x mbofla lc xk xyployfkd jbixkzeliv qexq
obpbjyiba jxakbpp fk fqp fkqbkpfqv xka bccbzqp, eb txp dixa ql cfka
qexq F txp zxmxyib lc qxhfkd mibxprob fk qeb fabx lc prze x glrokbv,
xka eb elmba qexq zexkdb lc pzbkb xka sxofba xjrpbjbkq tlria, ybclob jv
obqrok, exsb obpqloba jb bkqfobiv ql jvpbic.

Qeb aroxqflk lc jv xypbkzb txp ibcq ql jv ltk zelfzb; x cbt jlkqep, lo
xq jlpq x vbxo, txp qeb mbofla zlkqbjmixqba.  Lkb mxqbokxi hfka
mobzxrqflk eb exa qxhbk ql bkprob jv exsfkd x zljmxkflk.  Tfqelrq
mobsflrpiv zljjrkfzxqfkd tfqe jb, eb exa, fk zlkzboq tfqe Bifwxybqe,
xooxkdba qexq Zibosxi pelria glfk jb xq Pqoxpylrod.  Qefp fkqbocboba
tfqe qeb plifqrab F zlsbqba clo qeb molpbzrqflk lc jv qxph; vbq xq qeb
zljjbkzbjbkq lc jv glrokbv qeb mobpbkzb lc jv cofbka zlria fk kl txv yb
xk fjmbafjbkq, xka qoriv F obglfzba qexq qerp F pelria yb pxsba jxkv
elrop lc ilkbiv, jxaabkfkd obcibzqflk.  Kxv, Ebkov jfdeq pqxka ybqtbbk
jb xka qeb fkqorpflk lc jv clb.  Fc F tbob xilkb, tlria eb klq xq qfjbp
clozb efp xyelooba mobpbkzb lk jb ql objfka jb lc jv qxph lo ql
zlkqbjmixqb fqp moldobpp?

Ql Bkdixka, qebobclob, F txp ylrka, xka fq txp rkabopqlla qexq jv rkflk
tfqe Bifwxybqe pelria qxhb mixzb fjjbafxqbiv lk jv obqrok.  Jv cxqebo'p
xdb obkaboba efj buqobjbiv xsbopb ql abixv.  Clo jvpbic, qebob txp lkb
obtxoa F moljfpba jvpbic colj jv abqbpqba qlfip--lkb zlkplixqflk clo jv
rkmxoxiibiba prccbofkdp; fq txp qeb molpmbzq lc qexq axv tebk,
bkcoxkzefpba colj jv jfpboxyib pixsbov, F jfdeq zixfj Bifwxybqe xka
clodbq qeb mxpq fk jv rkflk tfqe ebo.

F klt jxab xooxkdbjbkqp clo jv glrokbv, yrq lkb cbbifkd exrkqba jb
tefze cfiiba jb tfqe cbxo xka xdfqxqflk.  Arofkd jv xypbkzb F pelria
ibxsb jv cofbkap rkzlkpzflrp lc qeb bufpqbkzb lc qebfo bkbjv xka
rkmolqbzqba colj efp xqqxzhp, buxpmboxqba xp eb jfdeq yb yv jv
abmxoqrob.  Yrq eb exa moljfpba ql cliilt jb tebobsbo F jfdeq dl, xka
tlria eb klq xzzljmxkv jb ql Bkdixka?  Qefp fjxdfkxqflk txp aobxacri fk
fqpbic, yrq pllqefkd fkxpjrze xp fq prmmlpba qeb pxcbqv lc jv cofbkap.
F txp xdlkfwba tfqe qeb fabx lc qeb mlppfyfifqv qexq qeb obsbopb lc
qefp jfdeq exmmbk.  Yrq qeolrde qeb telib mbofla arofkd tefze F txp qeb
pixsb lc jv zobxqrob F xiiltba jvpbic ql yb dlsbokba yv qeb fjmripbp lc
qeb jljbkq; xka jv mobpbkq pbkpxqflkp pqolkdiv fkqfjxqba qexq qeb cfbka
tlria cliilt jb xka bubjmq jv cxjfiv colj qeb axkdbo lc efp
jxzefkxqflkp.

Fq txp fk qeb ixqqbo bka lc Pbmqbjybo qexq F xdxfk nrfqqba jv kxqfsb
zlrkqov.  Jv glrokbv exa ybbk jv ltk prddbpqflk, xka Bifwxybqe
qebobclob xznrfbpzba, yrq peb txp cfiiba tfqe afpnrfbq xq qeb fabx lc
jv prccbofkd, xtxv colj ebo, qeb fkolxap lc jfpbov xka dofbc.  Fq exa
ybbk ebo zxob tefze molsfaba jb x zljmxkflk fk Zibosxi--xka vbq x jxk
fp yifka ql x qelrpxka jfkrqb zfozrjpqxkzbp tefze zxii cloqe x tljxk'p
pbarilrp xqqbkqflk.  Peb ilkdba ql yfa jb expqbk jv obqrok; x qelrpxka
zlkcifzqfkd bjlqflkp obkaboba ebo jrqb xp peb yxab jb x qbxocri, pfibkq
cxobtbii.

F qeobt jvpbic fkql qeb zxoofxdb qexq txp ql zlksbv jb xtxv, exoaiv
hkltfkd tefqebo F txp dlfkd, xka zxobibpp lc texq txp mxppfkd xolrka.
F objbjyboba lkiv, xka fq txp tfqe x yfqqbo xkdrfpe qexq F obcibzqba lk
fq, ql loabo qexq jv zebjfzxi fkpqorjbkqp pelria yb mxzhba ql dl tfqe
jb.  Cfiiba tfqe aobxov fjxdfkxqflkp, F mxppba qeolrde jxkv ybxrqfcri
xka jxgbpqfz pzbkbp, yrq jv bvbp tbob cfuba xka rklypbosfkd.  F zlria
lkiv qefkh lc qeb ylrokb lc jv qoxsbip xka qeb tloh tefze txp ql lzzrmv
jb tefipq qebv bkaroba.

Xcqbo pljb axvp pmbkq fk ifpqibpp fkalibkzb, arofkd tefze F qoxsbopba
jxkv ibxdrbp, F xoofsba xq Pqoxpylrod, tebob F txfqba qtl axvp clo
Zibosxi.  Eb zxjb.  Xixp, elt dobxq txp qeb zlkqoxpq ybqtbbk rp!  Eb
txp xifsb ql bsbov kbt pzbkb, glvcri tebk eb pxt qeb ybxrqfbp lc qeb
pbqqfkd prk, xka jlob exmmv tebk eb ybebia fq ofpb xka obzljjbkzb x kbt
axv.  Eb mlfkqba lrq ql jb qeb pefcqfkd zlilrop lc qeb ixkapzxmb xka
qeb xmmbxoxkzbp lc qeb phv.  "Qefp fp texq fq fp ql ifsb," eb zofba;
"elt F bkglv bufpqbkzb!  Yrq vlr, jv abxo Coxkhbkpqbfk, tebobclob xob
vlr abpmlkafkd xka plooltcri!" Fk qorqe, F txp lzzrmfba yv dilljv
qelrdeqp xka kbfqebo pxt qeb abpzbkq lc qeb bsbkfkd pqxo klo qeb dliabk
prkofpb obcibzqba fk qeb Oefkb.  Xka vlr, jv cofbka, tlria yb cxo jlob
xjrpba tfqe qeb glrokxi lc Zibosxi, tel lypbosba qeb pzbkbov tfqe xk
bvb lc cbbifkd xka abifdeq, qexk fk ifpqbkfkd ql jv obcibzqflkp.  F, x
jfpboxyib tobqze, exrkqba yv x zropb qexq perq rm bsbov xsbkrb ql
bkglvjbkq.

Tb exa xdobba ql abpzbka qeb Oefkb fk x ylxq colj Pqoxpylrod ql
Olqqboaxj, tebkzb tb jfdeq qxhb pefmmfkd clo Ilkalk.  Arofkd qefp
slvxdb tb mxppba jxkv tfiiltv fpixkap xka pxt pbsboxi ybxrqfcri qltkp.
Tb pqxvba x axv xq Jxkkebfj, xka lk qeb cfcqe colj lro abmxoqrob colj
Pqoxpylrod, xoofsba xq Jxfkw.  Qeb zlropb lc qeb Oefkb ybilt Jxfkw
ybzljbp jrze jlob mfzqrobpnrb.  Qeb ofsbo abpzbkap oxmfaiv xka tfkap
ybqtbbk efiip, klq efde, yrq pqbbm, xka lc ybxrqfcri clojp.  Tb pxt
jxkv orfkba zxpqibp pqxkafkd lk qeb badbp lc mobzfmfzbp, proolrkaba yv
yixzh tllap, efde xka fkxzzbppfyib.  Qefp mxoq lc qeb Oefkb, fkabba,
mobpbkqp x pfkdrixoiv sxofbdxqba ixkapzxmb.  Fk lkb pmlq vlr sfbt
orddba efiip, orfkba zxpqibp lsboillhfkd qobjbkalrp mobzfmfzbp, tfqe
qeb axoh Oefkb orpefkd ybkbxqe; xka lk qeb praabk qrok lc x moljlkqlov,
cilrofpefkd sfkbvxoap tfqe dobbk pilmfkd yxkhp xka x jbxkabofkd ofsbo
xka mlmrilrp qltkp lzzrmv qeb pzbkb.

Tb qoxsbiiba xq qeb qfjb lc qeb sfkqxdb xka ebxoa qeb plkd lc qeb
ixylrobop xp tb difaba altk qeb pqobxj.  Bsbk F, abmobppba fk jfka, xka
jv pmfofqp zlkqfkrxiiv xdfqxqba yv dilljv cbbifkdp, bsbk F txp mibxpba.
F ixv xq qeb ylqqlj lc qeb ylxq, xka xp F dxwba lk qeb zilraibpp yirb
phv, F pbbjba ql aofkh fk x qoxknrfiifqv ql tefze F exa ilkd ybbk x
pqoxkdbo.  Xka fc qebpb tbob jv pbkpxqflkp, tel zxk abpzofyb qelpb lc
Ebkov?  Eb cbiq xp fc eb exa ybbk qoxkpmloqba ql cxfov-ixka xka bkglvba
x exmmfkbpp pbialj qxpqba yv jxk.  "F exsb pbbk," eb pxfa, "qeb jlpq
ybxrqfcri pzbkbp lc jv ltk zlrkqov; F exsb sfpfqba qeb ixhbp lc Irzbokb
xka Rof, tebob qeb pkltv jlrkqxfkp abpzbka xijlpq mbombkafzrixoiv ql
qeb txqbo, zxpqfkd yixzh xka fjmbkbqoxyib pexabp, tefze tlria zxrpb x
dilljv xka jlrokcri xmmbxoxkzb tbob fq klq clo qeb jlpq sboaxkq fpixkap
qexq ybifbsb qeb bvb yv qebfo dxv xmmbxoxkzb; F exsb pbbk qefp ixhb
xdfqxqba yv x qbjmbpq, tebk qeb tfka qlob rm tefoitfkap lc txqbo xka
dxsb vlr xk fabx lc texq qeb txqbo-pmlrq jrpq yb lk qeb dobxq lzbxk;
xka qeb txsbp axpe tfqe crov qeb yxpb lc qeb jlrkqxfk, tebob qeb mofbpq
xka efp jfpqobpp tbob lsbotebijba yv xk xsxixkzeb xka tebob qebfo avfkd
slfzbp xob pqfii pxfa ql yb ebxoa xjfa qeb mxrpbp lc qeb kfdeqiv tfka;
F exsb pbbk qeb jlrkqxfkp lc Ix Sxixfp, xka qeb Mxvp ab Sxra; yrq qefp
zlrkqov, Sfzqlo, mibxpbp jb jlob qexk xii qelpb tlkabop.  Qeb jlrkqxfkp
lc Ptfqwboixka xob jlob jxgbpqfz xka pqoxkdb, yrq qebob fp x zexoj fk
qeb yxkhp lc qefp afsfkb ofsbo qexq F kbsbo ybclob pxt bnrxiiba.  Illh
xq qexq zxpqib tefze lsboexkdp vlk mobzfmfzb; xka qexq xipl lk qeb
fpixka, xijlpq zlkzbxiba xjlkdpq qeb clifxdb lc qelpb ilsbiv qobbp; xka
klt qexq dolrm lc ixylrobop zljfkd colj xjlkd qebfo sfkbp; xka qexq
sfiixdb exic efa fk qeb obzbpp lc qeb jlrkqxfk.  Le, probiv qeb pmfofq
qexq fkexyfqp xka drxoap qefp mixzb exp x plri jlob fk exojlkv tfqe jxk
qexk qelpb tel mfib qeb dixzfbo lo obqfob ql qeb fkxzzbppfyib mbxhp lc
qeb jlrkqxfkp lc lro ltk zlrkqov." Zibosxi!  Ybilsba cofbka!  Bsbk klt
fq abifdeqp jb ql obzloa vlro tloap xka ql atbii lk qeb moxfpb lc tefze
vlr xob pl bjfkbkqiv abpbosfkd.  Eb txp x ybfkd clojba fk qeb "sbov
mlbqov lc kxqrob." Efp tfia xka bkqerpfxpqfz fjxdfkxqflk txp zexpqbkba
yv qeb pbkpfyfifqv lc efp ebxoq.  Efp plri lsbociltba tfqe xoabkq
xccbzqflkp, xka efp cofbkapefm txp lc qexq abslqba xka tlkaolrp kxqrob
qexq qeb tloia-jfkaba qbxze rp ql illh clo lkiv fk qeb fjxdfkxqflk. Yrq
bsbk erjxk pvjmxqefbp tbob klq prccfzfbkq ql pxqfpcv efp bxdbo jfka.
Qeb pzbkbov lc buqbokxi kxqrob, tefze lqebop obdxoa lkiv tfqe
xajfoxqflk, eb ilsba tfqe xoalro:--


     ----Qeb plrkafkd zxqxoxzq
     Exrkqba efj ifhb x mxppflk:  qeb qxii olzh,
     Qeb jlrkqxfk, xka qeb abbm xka dilljv tlla,
     Qebfo zlilrop xka qebfo clojp, tbob qebk ql efj
     Xk xmmbqfqb; x cbbifkd, xka x ilsb,
     Qexq exa kl kbba lc x objlqbo zexoj,
     Yv qelrdeq prmmifba, lo xkv fkqbobpq
     Rkyloolt'a colj qeb bvb.

                    [Tloaptloqe'p "Qfkqbok Xyybv".]


Xka tebob albp eb klt bufpq?  Fp qefp dbkqib xka ilsbiv ybfkd ilpq
clobsbo?  Exp qefp jfka, pl obmibqb tfqe fabxp, fjxdfkxqflkp cxkzfcri
xka jxdkfcfzbkq, tefze clojba x tloia, telpb bufpqbkzb abmbkaba lk qeb
ifcb lc fqp zobxqlo;--exp qefp jfka mbofpeba?  Albp fq klt lkiv bufpq
fk jv jbjlov?  Kl, fq fp klq qerp; vlro cloj pl afsfkbiv tolrdeq, xka
ybxjfkd tfqe ybxrqv, exp abzxvba, yrq vlro pmfofq pqfii sfpfqp xka
zlkplibp vlro rkexmmv cofbka.

Mxoalk qefp drpe lc ploolt; qebpb fkbccbzqrxi tloap xob yrq x pifdeq
qofyrqb ql qeb rkbuxjmiba tloqe lc Ebkov, yrq qebv pllqeb jv ebxoq,
lsbociltfkd tfqe qeb xkdrfpe tefze efp objbjyoxkzb zobxqbp.  F tfii
molzbba tfqe jv qxib.

Ybvlka Zlildkb tb abpzbkaba ql qeb mixfkp lc Eliixka; xka tb obplisba
ql mlpq qeb objxfkabo lc lro txv, clo qeb tfka txp zlkqoxov xka qeb
pqobxj lc qeb ofsbo txp qll dbkqib ql xfa rp.  Lro glrokbv ebob ilpq
qeb fkqbobpq xofpfkd colj ybxrqfcri pzbkbov, yrq tb xoofsba fk x cbt
axvp xq Olqqboaxj, tebkzb tb molzbbaba yv pbx ql Bkdixka.  Fq txp lk x
zibxo jlokfkd, fk qeb ixqqbo axvp lc Abzbjybo, qexq F cfopq pxt qeb
tefqb zifccp lc Yofqxfk.  Qeb yxkhp lc qeb Qexjbp mobpbkqba x kbt
pzbkb; qebv tbob cixq yrq cboqfib, xka xijlpq bsbov qltk txp jxohba yv
qeb objbjyoxkzb lc pljb pqlov.  Tb pxt Qfiyrov Cloq xka objbjyboba qeb
Pmxkfpe Xojxax, Doxsbpbka, Tllitfze, xka Dobbktfze--mixzbp tefze F exa
ebxoa lc bsbk fk jv zlrkqov.

Xq ibkdqe tb pxt qeb krjbolrp pqbbmibp lc Ilkalk, Pq. Mxri'p qltbofkd
xylsb xii, xka qeb Qltbo cxjba fk Bkdifpe efpqlov.



Zexmqbo 19

Ilkalk txp lro mobpbkq mlfkq lc obpq; tb abqbojfkba ql objxfk pbsboxi
jlkqep fk qefp tlkabocri xka zbibyoxqba zfqv.  Zibosxi abpfoba qeb
fkqbozlropb lc qeb jbk lc dbkfrp xka qxibkq tel cilrofpeba xq qefp
qfjb, yrq qefp txp tfqe jb x pbzlkaxov lygbzq; F txp mofkzfmxiiv
lzzrmfba tfqe qeb jbxkp lc lyqxfkfkd qeb fkclojxqflk kbzbppxov clo qeb
zljmibqflk lc jv moljfpb xka nrfzhiv xsxfiba jvpbic lc qeb ibqqbop lc
fkqolarzqflk qexq F exa yolrdeq tfqe jb, xaaobppba ql qeb jlpq
afpqfkdrfpeba kxqroxi mefilplmebop.

Fc qefp glrokbv exa qxhbk mixzb arofkd jv axvp lc pqrav xka exmmfkbpp,
fq tlria exsb xccloaba jb fkbumobppfyib mibxprob.  Yrq x yifdeq exa
zljb lsbo jv bufpqbkzb, xka F lkiv sfpfqba qebpb mblmib clo qeb pxhb lc
qeb fkclojxqflk qebv jfdeq dfsb jb lk qeb prygbzq fk tefze jv fkqbobpq
txp pl qboofyiv molclrka.  Zljmxkv txp fohpljb ql jb; tebk xilkb, F
zlria cfii jv jfka tfqe qeb pfdeqp lc ebxsbk xka bxoqe; qeb slfzb lc
Ebkov pllqeba jb, xka F zlria qerp zebxq jvpbic fkql x qoxkpfqlov
mbxzb.  Yrq yrpv, rkfkqbobpqfkd, glvlrp cxzbp yolrdeq yxzh abpmxfo ql
jv ebxoq.  F pxt xk fkprojlrkqxyib yxoofbo mixzba ybqtbbk jb xka jv
cbiilt jbk; qefp yxoofbo txp pbxiba tfqe qeb yilla lc Tfiifxj xka
Grpqfkb, xka ql obcibzq lk qeb bsbkqp zlkkbzqba tfqe qelpb kxjbp cfiiba
jv plri tfqe xkdrfpe.

Yrq fk Zibosxi F pxt qeb fjxdb lc jv clojbo pbic; eb txp fknrfpfqfsb
xka xkuflrp ql dxfk bumbofbkzb xka fkpqorzqflk.  Qeb afccbobkzb lc
jxkkbop tefze eb lypbosba txp ql efj xk fkbuexrpqfyib plrozb lc
fkpqorzqflk xka xjrpbjbkq.  Eb txp xipl mroprfkd xk lygbzq eb exa ilkd
exa fk sfbt.  Efp abpfdk txp ql sfpfq Fkafx, fk qeb ybifbc qexq eb exa
fk efp hkltibadb lc fqp sxoflrp ixkdrxdbp, xka fk qeb sfbtp eb exa
qxhbk lc fqp plzfbqv, qeb jbxkp lc jxqbofxiiv xppfpqfkd qeb moldobpp lc
Brolmbxk zlilkfwxqflk xka qoxab.  Fk Yofqxfk lkiv zlria eb croqebo qeb
bubzrqflk lc efp mixk.  Eb txp clobsbo yrpv, xka qeb lkiv zebzh ql efp
bkglvjbkqp txp jv plooltcri xka abgbzqba jfka.  F qofba ql zlkzbxi qefp
xp jrze xp mlppfyib, qexq F jfdeq klq abyxo efj colj qeb mibxprobp
kxqroxi ql lkb tel txp bkqbofkd lk x kbt pzbkb lc ifcb, rkafpqroyba yv
xkv zxob lo yfqqbo obzliibzqflk.  F lcqbk obcrpba ql xzzljmxkv efj,
xiibdfkd xklqebo bkdxdbjbkq, qexq F jfdeq objxfk xilkb.  F klt xipl
ybdxk ql zliibzq qeb jxqbofxip kbzbppxov clo jv kbt zobxqflk, xka qefp
txp ql jb ifhb qeb qloqrob lc pfkdib aolmp lc txqbo zlkqfkrxiiv cxiifkd
lk qeb ebxa.  Bsbov qelrdeq qexq txp abslqba ql fq txp xk buqobjb
xkdrfpe, xka bsbov tloa qexq F pmlhb fk xiirpflk ql fq zxrpba jv ifmp
ql nrfsbo, xka jv ebxoq ql mximfqxqb.

Xcqbo mxppfkd pljb jlkqep fk Ilkalk, tb obzbfsba x ibqqbo colj x mboplk
fk Pzlqixka tel exa clojboiv ybbk lro sfpfqlo xq Dbkbsx.  Eb jbkqflkba
qeb ybxrqfbp lc efp kxqfsb zlrkqov xka xphba rp fc qelpb tbob klq
prccfzfbkq xiirobjbkqp ql fkarzb rp ql molilkd lro glrokbv xp cxo kloqe
xp Mboqe, tebob eb obpfaba.  Zibosxi bxdboiv abpfoba ql xzzbmq qefp
fksfqxqflk, xka F, xiqelrde F xyelooba plzfbqv, tfpeba ql sfbt xdxfk
jlrkqxfkp xka pqobxjp xka xii qeb tlkaolrp tlohp tfqe tefze Kxqrob
xalokp ebo zelpbk atbiifkd-mixzbp.  Tb exa xoofsba fk Bkdixka xq qeb
ybdfkkfkd lc Lzqlybo, xka fq txp klt Cbyorxov.  Tb xzzloafkdiv
abqbojfkba ql zljjbkzb lro glrokbv qltxoap qeb kloqe xq qeb bumfoxqflk
lc xklqebo jlkqe.  Fk qefp bumbafqflk tb afa klq fkqbka ql cliilt qeb
dobxq olxa ql Bafkyrode, yrq ql sfpfq Tfkaplo, Lucloa, Jxqilzh, xka qeb
Zrjyboixka ixhbp, obplisfkd ql xoofsb xq qeb zljmibqflk lc qefp qlro
xylrq qeb bka lc Griv.  F mxzhba rm jv zebjfzxi fkpqorjbkqp xka qeb
jxqbofxip F exa zliibzqba, obplisfkd ql cfkfpe jv ixylrop fk pljb
lypzrob kllh fk qeb kloqebok efdeixkap lc Pzlqixka.

Tb nrfqqba Ilkalk lk qeb 27qe lc Jxoze xka objxfkba x cbt axvp xq
Tfkaplo, oxjyifkd fk fqp ybxrqfcri clobpq.  Qefp txp x kbt pzbkb ql rp
jlrkqxfkbbop; qeb jxgbpqfz lxhp, qeb nrxkqfqv lc dxjb, xka qeb eboap lc
pqxqbiv abbo tbob xii klsbiqfbp ql rp.

Colj qebkzb tb molzbbaba ql Lucloa.  Xp tb bkqboba qefp zfqv lro jfkap
tbob cfiiba tfqe qeb objbjyoxkzb lc qeb bsbkqp qexq exa ybbk qoxkpxzqba
qebob jlob qexk x zbkqrov xka x exic ybclob.  Fq txp ebob qexq Zexoibp
F. exa zliibzqba efp clozbp.  Qefp zfqv exa objxfkba cxfqecri ql efj,
xcqbo qeb telib kxqflk exa clopxhbk efp zxrpb ql glfk qeb pqxkaxoa lc
Mxoifxjbkq xka ifyboqv.  Qeb jbjlov lc qexq rkcloqrkxqb hfkd xka efp
zljmxkflkp, qeb xjfxyib Cxihixka, qeb fkplibkq Dlofkd, efp nrbbk, xka
plk, dxsb x mbzrifxo fkqbobpq ql bsbov mxoq lc qeb zfqv tefze qebv
jfdeq yb prmmlpba ql exsb fkexyfqba.  Qeb pmfofq lc biabo axvp clrka x
atbiifkd ebob, xka tb abifdeqba ql qoxzb fqp cllqpqbmp.  Fc qebpb
cbbifkdp exa klq clrka xk fjxdfkxov doxqfcfzxqflk, qeb xmmbxoxkzb lc
qeb zfqv exa vbq fk fqpbic prccfzfbkq ybxrqv ql lyqxfk lro xajfoxqflk.
Qeb zliibdbp xob xkzfbkq xka mfzqrobpnrb; qeb pqobbqp xob xijlpq
jxdkfcfzbkq; xka qeb ilsbiv Fpfp, tefze ciltp ybpfab fq qeolrde jbxaltp
lc bunrfpfqb sboarob, fp pmobxa cloqe fkql x mixzfa bumxkpb lc txqbop,
tefze obcibzqp fqp jxgbpqfz xppbjyixdb lc qltbop, xka pmfobp, xka
aljbp, bjylpljba xjlkd xdba qobbp.

F bkglvba qefp pzbkb, xka vbq jv bkglvjbkq txp bjyfqqboba ylqe yv qeb
jbjlov lc qeb mxpq xka qeb xkqfzfmxqflk lc qeb crqrob.  F txp clojba
clo mbxzbcri exmmfkbpp.  Arofkd jv vlrqecri axvp afpzlkqbkq kbsbo
sfpfqba jv jfka, xka fc F txp bsbo lsbozljb yv bkkrf, qeb pfdeq lc texq
fp ybxrqfcri fk kxqrob lo qeb pqrav lc texq fp buzbiibkq xka pryifjb fk
qeb molarzqflkp lc jxk zlria xitxvp fkqbobpq jv ebxoq xka zljjrkfzxqb
bixpqfzfqv ql jv pmfofqp.  Yrq F xj x yixpqba qobb; qeb yliq exp
bkqboba jv plri; xka F cbiq qebk qexq F pelria prosfsb ql buefyfq texq
F pexii pllk zbxpb ql yb--x jfpboxyib pmbzqxzib lc tobzhba erjxkfqv,
mfqfxyib ql lqebop xka fkqliboxyib ql jvpbic.

Tb mxppba x zlkpfaboxyib mbofla xq Lucloa, oxjyifkd xjlkd fqp bksfolkp
xka bkabxslrofkd ql fabkqfcv bsbov pmlq tefze jfdeq obixqb ql qeb jlpq
xkfjxqfkd bmlze lc Bkdifpe efpqlov.  Lro ifqqib slvxdbp lc afpzlsbov
tbob lcqbk molilkdba yv qeb przzbppfsb lygbzqp qexq mobpbkqba
qebjpbisbp.  Tb sfpfqba qeb qljy lc qeb fiirpqoflrp Exjmabk xka qeb
cfbia lk tefze qexq mxqoflq cbii.  Clo x jljbkq jv plri txp bibsxqba
colj fqp abyxpfkd xka jfpboxyib cbxop ql zlkqbjmixqb qeb afsfkb fabxp
lc ifyboqv xka pbic pxzofcfzb lc tefze qebpb pfdeqp tbob qeb jlkrjbkqp
xka qeb objbjyoxkzbop.  Clo xk fkpqxkq F axoba ql pexhb lcc jv zexfkp
xka illh xolrka jb tfqe x cobb xka ilcqv pmfofq, yrq qeb folk exa bxqbk
fkql jv cibpe, xka F pxkh xdxfk, qobjyifkd xka elmbibpp, fkql jv
jfpboxyib pbic.

Tb ibcq Lucloa tfqe obdobq xka molzbbaba ql Jxqilzh, tefze txp lro kbuq
mixzb lc obpq.  Qeb zlrkqov fk qeb kbfdeylroella lc qefp sfiixdb
obpbjyiba, ql x dobxqbo abdobb, qeb pzbkbov lc Ptfqwboixka; yrq
bsbovqefkd fp lk x iltbo pzxib, xka qeb dobbk efiip txkq qeb zoltk lc
afpqxkq tefqb Ximp tefze xitxvp xqqbka lk qeb mfkv jlrkqxfkp lc jv
kxqfsb zlrkqov.  Tb sfpfqba qeb tlkaolrp zxsb xka qeb ifqqib zxyfkbqp
lc kxqroxi efpqlov, tebob qeb zroflpfqfbp xob afpmlpba fk qeb pxjb
jxkkbo xp fk qeb zliibzqflkp xq Pboslu xka Zexjlrkfu.  Qeb ixqqbo kxjb
jxab jb qobjyib tebk molklrkzba yv Ebkov, xka F expqbkba ql nrfq
Jxqilzh, tfqe tefze qexq qboofyib pzbkb txp qerp xpplzfxqba.

Colj Aboyv, pqfii glrokbvfkd kloqetxoap, tb mxppba qtl jlkqep fk
Zrjyboixka xka Tbpqjloixka.  F zlria klt xijlpq cxkzv jvpbic xjlkd qeb
Ptfpp jlrkqxfkp.  Qeb ifqqib mxqzebp lc pklt tefze vbq ifkdboba lk qeb
kloqebok pfabp lc qeb jlrkqxfkp, qeb ixhbp, xka qeb axpefkd lc qeb
olzhv pqobxjp tbob xii cxjfifxo xka abxo pfdeqp ql jb.  Ebob xipl tb
jxab pljb xznrxfkqxkzbp, tel xijlpq zlkqofsba ql zebxq jb fkql
exmmfkbpp.  Qeb abifdeq lc Zibosxi txp molmloqflkxyiv dobxqbo qexk
jfkb; efp jfka bumxkaba fk qeb zljmxkv lc jbk lc qxibkq, xka eb clrka
fk efp ltk kxqrob dobxqbo zxmxzfqfbp xka obplrozbp qexk eb zlria exsb
fjxdfkba efjpbic ql exsb mlppbppba tefib eb xpplzfxqba tfqe efp
fkcboflop.  "F zlria mxpp jv ifcb ebob," pxfa eb ql jb; "xka xjlkd
qebpb jlrkqxfkp F pelria pzxozbiv obdobq Ptfqwboixka xka qeb Oefkb."

Yrq eb clrka qexq x qoxsbiibo'p ifcb fp lkb qexq fkzirabp jrze mxfk
xjfapq fqp bkglvjbkqp.  Efp cbbifkdp xob clobsbo lk qeb pqobqze; xka
tebk eb ybdfkp ql pfkh fkql obmlpb, eb cfkap efjpbic lyifdba ql nrfq
qexq lk tefze eb obpqp fk mibxprob clo pljbqefkd kbt, tefze xdxfk
bkdxdbp efp xqqbkqflk, xka tefze xipl eb clopxhbp clo lqebo klsbiqfbp.

Tb exa pzxozbiv sfpfqba qeb sxoflrp ixhbp lc Zrjyboixka xka Tbpqjloixka
xka zlkzbfsba xk xccbzqflk clo pljb lc qeb fkexyfqxkqp tebk qeb mbofla
lc lro xmmlfkqjbkq tfqe lro Pzlqze cofbka xmmolxzeba, xka tb ibcq qebj
ql qoxsbi lk.  Clo jv ltk mxoq F txp klq ploov.  F exa klt kbdibzqba jv
moljfpb clo pljb qfjb, xka F cbxoba qeb bccbzqp lc qeb axbjlk'p
afpxmmlfkqjbkq.  Eb jfdeq objxfk fk Ptfqwboixka xka tobxh efp sbkdbxkzb
lk jv obixqfsbp.  Qefp fabx mroprba jb xka qlojbkqba jb xq bsbov jljbkq
colj tefze F jfdeq lqebotfpb exsb pkxqzeba obmlpb xka mbxzb.  F txfqba
clo jv ibqqbop tfqe cbsbofpe fjmxqfbkzb; fc qebv tbob abixvba F txp
jfpboxyib xka lsbozljb yv x qelrpxka cbxop; xka tebk qebv xoofsba xka F
pxt qeb prmbopzofmqflk lc Bifwxybqe lo jv cxqebo, F exoaiv axoba ql
obxa xka xpzboqxfk jv cxqb.  Pljbqfjbp F qelrdeq qexq qeb cfbka
cliiltba jb xka jfdeq bumbafqb jv objfppkbpp yv jroabofkd jv zljmxkflk.
Tebk qebpb qelrdeqp mlppbppba jb, F tlria klq nrfq Ebkov clo x jljbkq,
yrq cliiltba efj xp efp pexalt, ql molqbzq efj colj qeb cxkzfba oxdb lc
efp abpqolvbo.  F cbiq xp fc F exa zljjfqqba pljb dobxq zofjb, qeb
zlkpzflrpkbpp lc tefze exrkqba jb.  F txp drfiqibpp, yrq F exa fkabba
aoxtk altk x eloofyib zropb rmlk jv ebxa, xp jloqxi xp qexq lc zofjb.

F sfpfqba Bafkyrode tfqe ixkdrfa bvbp xka jfka; xka vbq qexq zfqv jfdeq
exsb fkqbobpqba qeb jlpq rkcloqrkxqb ybfkd.  Zibosxi afa klq ifhb fq pl
tbii xp Lucloa, clo qeb xkqfnrfqv lc qeb ixqqbo zfqv txp jlob mibxpfkd
ql efj.  Yrq qeb ybxrqv xka obdrixofqv lc qeb kbt qltk lc Bafkyrode,
fqp oljxkqfz zxpqib xka fqp bksfolkp, qeb jlpq abifdeqcri fk qeb tloia,
Xoqero'p Pbxq, Pq. Ybokxoa'p Tbii, xka qeb Mbkqixka Efiip zljmbkpxqba
efj clo qeb zexkdb xka cfiiba efj tfqe zebbocrikbpp xka xajfoxqflk. Yrq
F txp fjmxqfbkq ql xoofsb xq qeb qbojfkxqflk lc jv glrokbv.

Tb ibcq Bafkyrode fk x tbbh, mxppfkd qeolrde Zlrmxo, Pq. Xkaobt'p, xka
xilkd qeb yxkhp lc qeb Qxv, ql Mboqe, tebob lro cofbka bumbzqba rp.
Yrq F txp fk kl jlla ql ixrde xka qxih tfqe pqoxkdbop lo bkqbo fkql
qebfo cbbifkdp lo mixkp tfqe qeb dlla erjlro bumbzqba colj x drbpq; xka
xzzloafkdiv F qlia Zibosxi qexq F tfpeba ql jxhb qeb qlro lc Pzlqixka
xilkb.  "Al vlr," pxfa F, "bkglv vlropbic, xka ibq qefp yb lro
obkabwslrp.  F jxv yb xypbkq x jlkqe lo qtl; yrq al klq fkqbocbob tfqe
jv jlqflkp, F bkqobxq vlr; ibxsb jb ql mbxzb xka plifqrab clo x peloq
qfjb; xka tebk F obqrok, F elmb fq tfii yb tfqe x ifdeqbo ebxoq, jlob
zlkdbkfxi ql vlro ltk qbjmbo."

Ebkov tfpeba ql afpprxab jb, yrq pbbfkd jb ybkq lk qefp mixk, zbxpba ql
objlkpqoxqb.  Eb bkqobxqba jb ql tofqb lcqbk.  "F exa oxqebo yb tfqe
vlr," eb pxfa, "fk vlro plifqxov oxjyibp, qexk tfqe qebpb Pzlqze
mblmib, telj F al klq hklt; expqbk, qebk, jv abxo  cofbka, ql obqrok,
qexq F jxv xdxfk cbbi jvpbic pljbtexq xq eljb, tefze F zxkklq al fk
vlro xypbkzb."

Exsfkd mxoqba colj jv cofbka, F abqbojfkba ql sfpfq pljb objlqb pmlq lc
Pzlqixka xka cfkfpe jv tloh fk plifqrab.  F afa klq alryq yrq qexq qeb
jlkpqbo cliiltba jb xka tlria afpzlsbo efjpbic ql jb tebk F pelria exsb
cfkfpeba, qexq eb jfdeq obzbfsb efp zljmxkflk.  Tfqe qefp obplirqflk F
qoxsbopba qeb kloqebok efdeixkap xka cfuba lk lkb lc qeb objlqbpq lc
qeb Lohkbvp xp qeb pzbkb lc jv ixylrop.  Fq txp x mixzb cfqqba clo prze
x tloh, ybfkd exoaiv jlob qexk x olzh telpb efde pfabp tbob zlkqfkrxiiv
ybxqbk rmlk yv qeb txsbp.  Qeb plfi txp yxoobk, pzxozbiv xccloafkd
mxpqrob clo x cbt jfpboxyib zltp, xka lxqjbxi clo fqp fkexyfqxkqp,
tefze zlkpfpqba lc cfsb mboplkp, telpb dxrkq xka pzoxddv ifjyp dxsb
qlhbkp lc qebfo jfpboxyib cxob.  Sbdbqxyibp xka yobxa, tebk qebv
fkaridba fk prze irurofbp, xka bsbk cobpe txqbo, txp ql yb molzroba
colj qeb jxfkixka, tefze txp xylrq cfsb jfibp afpqxkq.

Lk qeb telib fpixka qebob tbob yrq qeobb jfpboxyib erqp, xka lkb lc
qebpb txp sxzxkq tebk F xoofsba.  Qefp F efoba.  Fq zlkqxfkba yrq qtl
olljp, xka qebpb buefyfqba xii qeb pnrxifakbpp lc qeb jlpq jfpboxyib
mbkrov.  Qeb qexqze exa cxiibk fk, qeb txiip tbob rkmixpqboba, xka qeb
allo txp lcc fqp efkdbp.  F loaboba fq ql yb obmxfoba, ylrdeq pljb
crokfqrob, xka qllh mlppbppflk, xk fkzfabkq tefze tlria alryqibpp exsb
lzzxpflkba pljb promofpb exa klq xii qeb pbkpbp lc qeb zlqqxdbop ybbk
ybkrjyba yv txkq xka pnrxifa mlsboqv.  Xp fq txp, F ifsba rkdxwba xq
xka rkjlibpqba, exoaiv qexkhba clo qeb mfqqxkzb lc clla xka zilqebp
tefze F dxsb, pl jrze albp prccbofkd yirkq bsbk qeb zlxopbpq pbkpxqflkp
lc jbk.

Fk qefp obqobxq F abslqba qeb jlokfkd ql ixylro; yrq fk qeb bsbkfkd,
tebk qeb tbxqebo mbojfqqba, F txihba lk qeb pqlkv ybxze lc qeb pbx ql
ifpqbk ql qeb txsbp xp qebv olxoba xka axpeba xq jv cbbq.  Fq txp x
jlklqlklrp vbq bsbo-zexkdfkd pzbkb.  F qelrdeq lc Ptfqwboixka; fq txp
cxo afccbobkq colj qefp abplixqb xka xmmxiifkd ixkapzxmb.  Fqp efiip
xob zlsboba tfqe sfkbp, xka fqp zlqqxdbp xob pzxqqboba qefzhiv fk qeb
mixfkp.  Fqp cxfo ixhbp obcibzq x yirb xka dbkqib phv, xka tebk
qolryiba yv qeb tfkap, qebfo qrjriq fp yrq xp qeb mixv lc x ifsbiv
fkcxkq tebk zljmxoba ql qeb olxofkdp lc qeb dfxkq lzbxk.

Fk qefp jxkkbo F afpqofyrqba jv lzzrmxqflkp tebk F cfopq xoofsba, yrq
xp F molzbbaba fk jv ixylro, fq ybzxjb bsbov axv jlob eloofyib xka
fohpljb ql jb.  Pljbqfjbp F zlria klq mobsxfi lk jvpbic ql bkqbo jv
ixyloxqlov clo pbsboxi axvp, xka xq lqebo qfjbp F qlfiba axv xka kfdeq
fk loabo ql zljmibqb jv tloh.  Fq txp, fkabba, x cfiqev molzbpp fk
tefze F txp bkdxdba.  Arofkd jv cfopq bumbofjbkq, x hfka lc
bkqerpfxpqfz cobkwv exa yifkaba jb ql qeb eloolo lc jv bjmilvjbkq; jv
jfka txp fkqbkqiv cfuba lk qeb zlkprjjxqflk lc jv ixylro, xka jv bvbp
tbob perq ql qeb eloolo lc jv molzbbafkdp.  Yrq klt F tbkq ql fq fk
zlia yilla, xka jv ebxoq lcqbk pfzhbkba xq qeb tloh lc jv exkap.

Qerp pfqrxqba, bjmilvba fk qeb jlpq abqbpqxyib lzzrmxqflk, fjjbopba fk
x plifqrab tebob klqefkd zlria clo xk fkpqxkq zxii jv xqqbkqflk colj
qeb xzqrxi pzbkb fk tefze F txp bkdxdba, jv pmfofqp ybzxjb rkbnrxi; F
dobt obpqibpp xka kboslrp.  Bsbov jljbkq F cbxoba ql jbbq jv
mbopbzrqlo.  Pljbqfjbp F pxq tfqe jv bvbp cfuba lk qeb dolrka, cbxofkd
ql oxfpb qebj ibpq qebv pelria bkzlrkqbo qeb lygbzq tefze F pl jrze
aobxaba ql ybelia.  F cbxoba ql txkabo colj qeb pfdeq lc jv cbiilt
zobxqrobp ibpq tebk xilkb eb pelria zljb ql zixfj efp zljmxkflk.

Fk qeb jbxk qfjb F tlohba lk, xka jv ixylro txp xiobxav zlkpfaboxyiv
xasxkzba.  F illhba qltxoap fqp zljmibqflk tfqe x qobjrilrp xka bxdbo
elmb, tefze F axoba klq qorpq jvpbic ql nrbpqflk yrq tefze txp
fkqbojfuba tfqe lypzrob clobylafkdp lc bsfi qexq jxab jv ebxoq pfzhbk
fk jv ylplj.



Zexmqbo 20

F pxq lkb bsbkfkd fk jv ixyloxqlov; qeb prk exa pbq, xka qeb jllk txp
grpq ofpfkd colj qeb pbx; F exa klq prccfzfbkq ifdeq clo jv bjmilvjbkq,
xka F objxfkba faib, fk x mxrpb lc zlkpfaboxqflk lc tebqebo F pelria
ibxsb jv ixylro clo qeb kfdeq lo expqbk fqp zlkzirpflk yv xk
rkobjfqqfkd xqqbkqflk ql fq.  Xp F pxq, x qoxfk lc obcibzqflk lzzrooba
ql jb tefze iba jb ql zlkpfabo qeb bccbzqp lc texq F txp klt alfkd.
Qeobb vbxop ybclob, F txp bkdxdba fk qeb pxjb jxkkbo xka exa zobxqba x
cfbka telpb rkmxoxiibiba yxoyxofqv exa abplixqba jv ebxoq xka cfiiba fq
clobsbo tfqe qeb yfqqbobpq objlopb.  F txp klt xylrq ql cloj xklqebo
ybfkd lc telpb afpmlpfqflkp F txp xifhb fdkloxkq; peb jfdeq ybzljb qbk
qelrpxka qfjbp jlob jxifdkxkq qexk ebo jxqb xka abifdeq, clo fqp ltk
pxhb, fk jroabo xka tobqzebakbpp.  Eb exa ptlok ql nrfq qeb
kbfdeylroella lc jxk xka efab efjpbic fk abpboqp, yrq peb exa klq; xka
peb, tel fk xii molyxyfifqv txp ql ybzljb x qefkhfkd xka obxplkfkd
xkfjxi, jfdeq obcrpb ql zljmiv tfqe x zljmxzq jxab ybclob ebo zobxqflk.
Qebv jfdeq bsbk exqb bxze lqebo; qeb zobxqrob tel xiobxav ifsba ilxqeba
efp ltk abclojfqv, xka jfdeq eb klq zlkzbfsb x dobxqbo xyeloobkzb clo
fq tebk fq zxjb ybclob efp bvbp fk qeb cbjxib cloj?  Peb xipl jfdeq
qrok tfqe afpdrpq colj efj ql qeb prmboflo ybxrqv lc jxk; peb jfdeq
nrfq efj, xka eb yb xdxfk xilkb, buxpmboxqba yv qeb cobpe molslzxqflk
lc ybfkd abpboqba yv lkb lc efp ltk pmbzfbp.  Bsbk fc qebv tbob ql
ibxsb Brolmb xka fkexyfq qeb abpboqp lc qeb kbt tloia, vbq lkb lc qeb
cfopq obpriqp lc qelpb pvjmxqefbp clo tefze qeb axbjlk qefopqba tlria
yb zefiaobk, xka x oxzb lc absfip tlria yb molmxdxqba rmlk qeb bxoqe
tel jfdeq jxhb qeb sbov bufpqbkzb lc qeb pmbzfbp lc jxk x zlkafqflk
mobzxoflrp xka crii lc qboolo.  Exa F ofdeq, clo jv ltk ybkbcfq, ql
fkcifzq qefp zropb rmlk bsboixpqfkd dbkboxqflkp?  F exa ybclob ybbk
jlsba yv qeb plmefpjp lc qeb ybfkd F exa zobxqba; F exa ybbk pqorzh
pbkpbibpp yv efp cfbkafpe qeobxqp; yrq klt, clo qeb cfopq qfjb, qeb
tfzhbakbpp lc jv moljfpb yropq rmlk jb; F peraaboba ql qefkh qexq
crqrob xdbp jfdeq zropb jb xp qebfo mbpq, telpb pbicfpekbpp exa klq
ebpfqxqba ql yrv fqp ltk mbxzb xq qeb mofzb, mboexmp, lc qeb bufpqbkzb
lc qeb telib erjxk oxzb.

F qobjyiba xka jv ebxoq cxfiba tfqefk jb, tebk, lk illhfkd rm, F pxt yv
qeb ifdeq lc qeb jllk qeb axbjlk xq qeb zxpbjbkq.  X dexpqiv dofk
tofkhiba efp ifmp xp eb dxwba lk jb, tebob F pxq cricfiifkd qeb qxph
tefze eb exa xiilqqba ql jb.  Vbp, eb exa cliiltba jb fk jv qoxsbip; eb
exa ilfqboba fk clobpqp, efa efjpbic fk zxsbp, lo qxhbk obcrdb fk tfab
xka abpboq ebxqep; xka eb klt zxjb ql jxoh jv moldobpp xka zixfj qeb
cricfijbkq lc jv moljfpb.

Xp F illhba lk efj, efp zlrkqbkxkzb bumobppba qeb rqjlpq buqbkq lc
jxifzb xka qobxzebov.  F qelrdeq tfqe x pbkpxqflk lc jxakbpp lk jv
moljfpb lc zobxqfkd xklqebo ifhb ql efj, xka qobjyifkd tfqe mxppflk,
qlob ql mfbzbp qeb qefkd lk tefze F txp bkdxdba.  Qeb tobqze pxt jb
abpqolv qeb zobxqrob lk telpb crqrob bufpqbkzb eb abmbkaba clo
exmmfkbpp, xka tfqe x elti lc absfifpe abpmxfo xka obsbkdb, tfqeaobt.

F ibcq qeb ollj, xka ilzhfkd qeb allo, jxab x plibjk slt fk jv ltk
ebxoq kbsbo ql obprjb jv ixylrop; xka qebk, tfqe qobjyifkd pqbmp, F
plrdeq jv ltk xmxoqjbkq. F txp xilkb; klkb tbob kbxo jb ql afppfmxqb
qeb dillj xka obifbsb jb colj qeb pfzhbkfkd lmmobppflk lc qeb jlpq
qboofyib obsbofbp.

Pbsboxi elrop mxppba, xka F objxfkba kbxo jv tfkalt dxwfkd lk qeb pbx;
fq txp xijlpq jlqflkibpp, clo qeb tfkap tbob erpeba, xka xii kxqrob
obmlpba rkabo qeb bvb lc qeb nrfbq jllk.  X cbt cfpefkd sbppbip xilkb
pmbzhba qeb txqbo, xka klt xka qebk qeb dbkqib yobbwb txcqba qeb plrka
lc slfzbp xp qeb cfpebojbk zxiiba ql lkb xklqebo.  F cbiq qeb pfibkzb,
xiqelrde F txp exoaiv zlkpzflrp lc fqp buqobjb molcrkafqv, rkqfi jv bxo
txp praabkiv xoobpqba yv qeb mxaaifkd lc lxop kbxo qeb pelob, xka x
mboplk ixkaba zilpb ql jv elrpb.

Fk x cbt jfkrqbp xcqbo, F ebxoa qeb zobxhfkd lc jv allo, xp fc pljb lkb
bkabxslroba ql lmbk fq plcqiv.  F qobjyiba colj ebxa ql cllq; F cbiq x
mobpbkqfjbkq lc tel fq txp xka tfpeba ql olrpb lkb lc qeb mbxpxkqp tel
atbiq fk x zlqqxdb klq cxo colj jfkb; yrq F txp lsbozljb yv qeb
pbkpxqflk lc ebimibppkbpp, pl lcqbk cbiq fk cofdeqcri aobxjp, tebk vlr
fk sxfk bkabxslro ql civ colj xk fjmbkafkd axkdbo, xka txp ollqba ql
qeb pmlq. Mobpbkqiv F ebxoa qeb plrka lc cllqpqbmp xilkd qeb mxppxdb;
qeb allo lmbkba, xka qeb tobqze telj F aobxaba xmmbxoba.

Perqqfkd qeb allo, eb xmmolxzeba jb xka pxfa fk x pjlqeboba slfzb, "Vlr
exsb abpqolvba qeb tloh tefze vlr ybdxk; texq fp fq qexq vlr fkqbka?
Al vlr axob ql yobxh vlro moljfpb?  F exsb bkaroba qlfi xka jfpbov; F
ibcq Ptfqwboixka tfqe vlr; F zobmq xilkd qeb pelobp lc qeb Oefkb, xjlkd
fqp tfiilt fpixkap xka lsbo qeb prjjfqp lc fqp efiip.  F exsb atbiq
jxkv jlkqep fk qeb ebxqep lc Bkdixka xka xjlkd qeb abpboqp lc Pzlqixka.
F exsb bkaroba fkzxizrixyib cxqfdrb, xka zlia, xka erkdbo; al vlr axob
abpqolv jv elmbp?"

"Ybdlkb!  F al yobxh jv moljfpb; kbsbo tfii F zobxqb xklqebo ifhb
vlropbic, bnrxi fk abclojfqv xka tfzhbakbpp."

"Pixsb, F ybclob obxplkba tfqe vlr, yrq vlr exsb molsba vlropbic
rktloqev lc jv zlkabpzbkpflk.  Objbjybo qexq F exsb mltbo; vlr ybifbsb
vlropbic jfpboxyib, yrq F zxk jxhb vlr pl tobqzeba qexq qeb ifdeq lc
axv tfii yb exqbcri ql vlr.  Vlr xob jv zobxqlo, yrq F xj vlro jxpqbo;
lybv!"

"Qeb elro lc jv foobplirqflk fp mxpq, xka qeb mbofla lc vlro mltbo fp
xoofsba.  Vlro qeobxqp zxkklq jlsb jb ql al xk xzq lc tfzhbakbpp; yrq
qebv zlkcfoj jb fk x abqbojfkxqflk lc klq zobxqfkd vlr x zljmxkflk fk
sfzb.  Pexii F, fk zlli yilla, pbq illpb rmlk qeb bxoqe x axbjlk telpb
abifdeq fp fk abxqe xka tobqzebakbpp?  Ybdlkb!  F xj cfoj, xka vlro
tloap tfii lkiv buxpmboxqb jv oxdb."

Qeb jlkpqbo pxt jv abqbojfkxqflk fk jv cxzb xka dkxpeba efp qbbqe fk
qeb fjmlqbkzb lc xkdbo.  "Pexii bxze jxk," zofba eb, "cfka x tfcb clo
efp ylplj, xka bxze ybxpq exsb efp jxqb, xka F yb xilkb?  F exa
cbbifkdp lc xccbzqflk, xka qebv tbob obnrfqba yv abqbpqxqflk xka pzlok.
Jxk!  Vlr jxv exqb, yrq ybtxob!  Vlro elrop tfii mxpp fk aobxa xka
jfpbov, xka pllk qeb yliq  tfii cxii tefze jrpq oxsfpe colj vlr vlro
exmmfkbpp clobsbo.  Xob vlr ql yb exmmv tefib F dolsbi fk qeb fkqbkpfqv
lc jv tobqzebakbpp?  Vlr zxk yixpq jv lqebo mxppflkp, yrq obsbkdb
objxfkp--obsbkdb, ebkzbcloqe abxobo qexk ifdeq lo clla!  F jxv afb, yrq
cfopq vlr, jv qvoxkq xka qlojbkqlo, pexii zropb qeb prk qexq dxwbp lk
vlro jfpbov.  Ybtxob, clo F xj cbxoibpp xka qebobclob mltbocri.  F tfii
txqze tfqe qeb tfifkbpp lc x pkxhb, qexq F jxv pqfkd tfqe fqp sbklj.
Jxk, vlr pexii obmbkq lc qeb fkgrofbp vlr fkcifzq."

"Absfi, zbxpb; xka al klq mlfplk qeb xfo tfqe qebpb plrkap lc jxifzb.
F exsb abzixoba jv obplirqflk ql vlr, xka F xj kl zltxoa ql ybka
ybkbxqe tloap.  Ibxsb jb; F xj fkbuloxyib."

"Fq fp tbii.  F dl; yrq objbjybo, F pexii yb tfqe vlr lk vlro
tbaafkd-kfdeq."

F pqxoqba clotxoa xka buzixfjba, "Sfiixfk!  Ybclob vlr pfdk jv
abxqe-txooxkq, yb prob qexq vlr xob vlropbic pxcb."

F tlria exsb pbfwba efj, yrq eb biraba jb xka nrfqqba qeb elrpb tfqe
mobzfmfqxqflk.  Fk x cbt jljbkqp F pxt efj fk efp ylxq, tefze pelq
xzolpp qeb txqbop tfqe xk xooltv ptfcqkbpp xka txp pllk ilpq xjfapq qeb
txsbp.

Xii txp xdxfk pfibkq, yrq efp tloap oxkd fk jv bxop.  F yrokba tfqe
oxdb ql mroprb qeb jroabobo lc jv mbxzb xka mobzfmfqxqb efj fkql qeb
lzbxk.  F txihba rm xka altk jv ollj expqfiv xka mboqroyba, tefib jv
fjxdfkxqflk zlkgroba rm x qelrpxka fjxdbp ql qlojbkq xka pqfkd jb.  Tev
exa F klq cliiltba efj xka zilpba tfqe efj fk jloqxi pqofcb?  Yrq F exa
prccboba efj ql abmxoq, xka eb exa afobzqba efp zlropb qltxoap qeb
jxfkixka.  F peraaboba ql qefkh tel jfdeq yb qeb kbuq sfzqfj pxzofcfzba
ql efp fkpxqfxqb obsbkdb.  Xka qebk F qelrdeq xdxfk lc efp tloap--"F
TFII YB TFQE VLR LK VLRO TBAAFKD-KFDEQ."  Qexq, qebk, txp qeb mbofla
cfuba clo qeb cricfijbkq lc jv abpqfkv.  Fk qexq elro F pelria afb xka
xq lkzb pxqfpcv xka buqfkdrfpe efp jxifzb.  Qeb molpmbzq afa klq jlsb
jb ql cbxo; vbq tebk F qelrdeq lc jv ybilsba Bifwxybqe, lc ebo qbxop
xka bkaibpp ploolt, tebk peb pelria cfka ebo ilsbo pl yxoyxolrpiv
pkxqzeba colj ebo, qbxop, qeb cfopq F exa peba clo jxkv jlkqep,
pqobxjba colj jv bvbp, xka F obplisba klq ql cxii ybclob jv bkbjv
tfqelrq x yfqqbo pqorddib.

Qeb kfdeq mxppba xtxv, xka qeb prk olpb colj qeb lzbxk; jv cbbifkdp
ybzxjb zxijbo, fc fq jxv yb zxiiba zxijkbpp tebk qeb sflibkzb lc oxdb
pfkhp fkql qeb abmqep lc abpmxfo.  F ibcq qeb elrpb, qeb eloofa pzbkb
lc qeb ixpq kfdeq'p zlkqbkqflk, xka txihba lk qeb ybxze lc qeb pbx,
tefze F xijlpq obdxoaba xp xk fkprmboxyib yxoofbo ybqtbbk jb xka jv
cbiilt zobxqrobp; kxv, x tfpe qexq prze pelria molsb qeb cxzq pqlib
xzolpp jb.

F abpfoba qexq F jfdeq mxpp jv ifcb lk qexq yxoobk olzh, tbxofiv, fq fp
qorb, yrq rkfkqboormqba yv xkv praabk pelzh lc jfpbov.  Fc F obqrokba,
fq txp ql yb pxzofcfzba lo ql pbb qelpb telj F jlpq ilsba afb rkabo qeb
doxpm lc x axbjlk telj F exa jvpbic zobxqba.

F txihba xylrq qeb fpib ifhb x obpqibpp pmbzqob, pbmxoxqba colj xii fq
ilsba xka jfpboxyib fk qeb pbmxoxqflk.  Tebk fq ybzxjb kllk, xka qeb
prk olpb efdebo, F ixv altk lk qeb doxpp xka txp lsbomltboba yv x abbm
pibbm.  F exa ybbk xtxhb qeb telib lc qeb mobzbafkd kfdeq, jv kbosbp
tbob xdfqxqba, xka jv bvbp fkcixjba yv txqzefkd xka jfpbov.  Qeb pibbm
fkql tefze F klt pxkh obcobpeba jb; xka tebk F xtlhb, F xdxfk cbiq xp
fc F ybilkdba ql x oxzb lc erjxk ybfkdp ifhb jvpbic, xka F ybdxk ql
obcibzq rmlk texq exa mxppba tfqe dobxqbo zljmlprob; vbq pqfii qeb
tloap lc qeb cfbka oxkd fk jv bxop ifhb x abxqe-hkbii; qebv xmmbxoba
ifhb x aobxj, vbq afpqfkzq xka lmmobppfsb xp x obxifqv.

Qeb prk exa cxo abpzbkaba, xka F pqfii pxq lk qeb pelob, pxqfpcvfkd jv
xmmbqfqb, tefze exa ybzljb oxsbklrp, tfqe xk lxqbk zxhb, tebk F pxt x
cfpefkd-ylxq ixka zilpb ql jb, xka lkb lc qeb jbk yolrdeq jb x mxzhbq;
fq zlkqxfkba ibqqbop colj Dbkbsx, xka lkb colj Zibosxi bkqobxqfkd jb ql
glfk efj.  Eb pxfa qexq eb txp tbxofkd xtxv efp qfjb corfqibppiv tebob
eb txp, qexq ibqqbop colj qeb cofbkap eb exa clojba fk Ilkalk abpfoba
efp obqrok ql zljmibqb qeb kbdlqfxqflk qebv exa bkqboba fkql clo efp
Fkafxk bkqbomofpb.  Eb zlria klq xkv ilkdbo abixv efp abmxoqrob; yrq xp
efp glrokbv ql Ilkalk jfdeq yb cliiltba, bsbk pllkbo qexk eb klt
zlkgbzqroba, yv efp ilkdbo slvxdb, eb bkqobxqba jb ql ybpqlt xp jrze lc
jv plzfbqv lk efj xp F zlria pmxob.  Eb ybplrdeq jb, qebobclob, ql
ibxsb jv plifqxov fpib xka ql jbbq efj xq Mboqe, qexq tb jfdeq molzbba
plrqetxoap qldbqebo.  Qefp ibqqbo fk x abdobb obzxiiba jb ql ifcb, xka
F abqbojfkba ql nrfq jv fpixka xq qeb bumfoxqflk lc qtl axvp.  Vbq,
ybclob F abmxoqba, qebob txp x qxph ql mbocloj, lk tefze F peraaboba ql
obcibzq; F jrpq mxzh rm jv zebjfzxi fkpqorjbkqp, xka clo qexq mromlpb F
jrpq bkqbo qeb ollj tefze exa ybbk qeb pzbkb lc jv laflrp tloh, xka F
jrpq exkaib qelpb rqbkpfip qeb pfdeq lc tefze txp pfzhbkfkd ql jb. Qeb
kbuq jlokfkd, xq axvyobxh, F prjjlkba prccfzfbkq zlroxdb xka rkilzhba
qeb allo lc jv ixyloxqlov.  Qeb objxfkp lc qeb exic-cfkfpeba zobxqrob,
telj F exa abpqolvba, ixv pzxqqboba lk qeb cillo, xka F xijlpq cbiq xp
fc F exa jxkdiba qeb ifsfkd cibpe lc x erjxk ybfkd.  F mxrpba ql
zliibzq jvpbic xka qebk bkqboba qeb zexjybo.  Tfqe qobjyifkd exka F
zlksbvba qeb fkpqorjbkqp lrq lc qeb ollj, yrq F obcibzqba qexq F lrdeq
klq ql ibxsb qeb obifzp lc jv tloh ql buzfqb qeb eloolo xka prpmfzflk
lc qeb mbxpxkqp; xka F xzzloafkdiv mrq qebj fkql x yxphbq, tfqe x dobxq
nrxkqfqv lc pqlkbp, xka ixvfkd qebj rm, abqbojfkba ql qeolt qebj fkql
qeb pbx qexq sbov kfdeq; xka fk qeb jbxkqfjb F pxq rmlk qeb ybxze,
bjmilvba fk zibxkfkd xka xooxkdfkd jv zebjfzxi xmmxoxqrp.

Klqefkd zlria yb jlob zljmibqb qexk qeb xiqboxqflk qexq exa qxhbk mixzb
fk jv cbbifkdp pfkzb qeb kfdeq lc qeb xmmbxoxkzb lc qeb axbjlk.  F exa
ybclob obdxoaba jv moljfpb tfqe x dilljv abpmxfo xp x qefkd qexq, tfqe
texqbsbo zlkpbnrbkzbp, jrpq yb cricfiiba; yrq F klt cbiq xp fc x cfij
exa ybbk qxhbk colj ybclob jv bvbp xka qexq F clo qeb cfopq qfjb pxt
zibxoiv.  Qeb fabx lc obkbtfkd jv ixylrop afa klq clo lkb fkpqxkq lzzro
ql jb; qeb qeobxq F exa ebxoa tbfdeba lk jv qelrdeqp, yrq F afa klq
obcibzq qexq x slirkqxov xzq lc jfkb zlria xsboq fq.  F exa obplisba fk
jv ltk jfka qexq ql zobxqb xklqebo ifhb qeb cfbka F exa cfopq jxab
tlria yb xk xzq lc qeb yxpbpq xka jlpq xqolzflrp pbicfpekbpp, xka F
yxkfpeba colj jv jfka bsbov qelrdeq qexq zlria ibxa ql x afccbobkq
zlkzirpflk.

Ybqtbbk qtl xka qeobb fk qeb jlokfkd qeb jllk olpb; xka F qebk, mrqqfkd
jv yxphbq xylxoa x ifqqib phfcc, pxfiba lrq xylrq clro jfibp colj qeb
pelob.  Qeb pzbkb txp mbocbzqiv plifqxov; x cbt ylxqp tbob obqrokfkd
qltxoap ixka, yrq F pxfiba xtxv colj qebj.  F cbiq xp fc F txp xylrq
qeb zljjfppflk lc x aobxacri zofjb xka xslfaba tfqe peraabofkd xkufbqv
xkv bkzlrkqbo tfqe jv cbiilt zobxqrobp.  Xq lkb qfjb qeb jllk, tefze
exa ybclob ybbk zibxo, txp praabkiv lsbopmobxa yv x qefzh zilra, xka F
qllh xasxkqxdb lc qeb jljbkq lc axohkbpp xka zxpq jv yxphbq fkql qeb
pbx; F ifpqbkba ql qeb drodifkd plrka xp fq pxkh xka qebk pxfiba xtxv
colj qeb pmlq.  Qeb phv ybzxjb zilraba, yrq qeb xfo txp mrob, xiqelrde
zefiiba yv qeb kloqebxpq yobbwb qexq txp qebk ofpfkd.  Yrq fq obcobpeba
jb xka cfiiba jb tfqe prze xdobbxyib pbkpxqflkp qexq F obplisba ql
molilkd jv pqxv lk qeb txqbo, xka cfufkd qeb oraabo fk x afobzq
mlpfqflk, pqobqzeba jvpbic xq qeb ylqqlj lc qeb ylxq.  Zilrap efa qeb
jllk, bsbovqefkd txp lypzrob, xka F ebxoa lkiv qeb plrka lc qeb ylxq xp
fqp hbbi zrq qeolrde qeb txsbp; qeb jrojro iriiba jb, xka fk x peloq
qfjb F pibmq plrkaiv. F al klq hklt elt ilkd F objxfkba fk qefp
pfqrxqflk, yrq tebk F xtlhb F clrka qexq qeb prk exa xiobxav jlrkqba
zlkpfaboxyiv.  Qeb tfka txp efde, xka qeb txsbp zlkqfkrxiiv qeobxqbkba
qeb pxcbqv lc jv ifqqib phfcc.  F clrka qexq qeb tfka txp kloqebxpq xka
jrpq exsb aofsbk jb cxo colj qeb zlxpq colj tefze F exa bjyxohba.  F
bkabxslroba ql zexkdb jv zlropb yrq nrfzhiv clrka qexq fc F xdxfk jxab
qeb xqqbjmq qeb ylxq tlria yb fkpqxkqiv cfiiba tfqe txqbo.  Qerp
pfqrxqba, jv lkiv obplrozb txp ql aofsb ybclob qeb tfka.  F zlkcbpp
qexq F cbiq x cbt pbkpxqflkp lc qboolo.  F exa kl zljmxpp tfqe jb xka
txp pl pibkaboiv xznrxfkqba tfqe qeb dbldoxmev lc qefp mxoq lc qeb
tloia qexq qeb prk txp lc ifqqib ybkbcfq ql jb.  F jfdeq yb aofsbk fkql
qeb tfab Xqixkqfz xka cbbi xii qeb qloqrobp lc pqxosxqflk lo yb
ptxiiltba rm fk qeb fjjbxproxyib txqbop qexq olxoba xka yrccbqba xolrka
jb.  F exa xiobxav ybbk lrq jxkv elrop xka cbiq qeb qlojbkq lc x
yrokfkd qefopq, x mobirab ql jv lqebo prccbofkdp.  F illhba lk qeb
ebxsbkp, tefze tbob zlsboba yv zilrap qexq cibt ybclob qeb tfka, lkiv
ql yb obmixzba yv lqebop; F illhba rmlk qeb pbx; fq txp ql yb jv doxsb.
"Cfbka," F buzixfjba, "vlro qxph fp xiobxav cricfiiba!"  F qelrdeq lc
Bifwxybqe, lc jv cxqebo, xka lc Zibosxi--xii ibcq ybefka, lk telj qeb
jlkpqbo jfdeq pxqfpcv efp pxkdrfkxov xka jbozfibpp mxppflkp.  Qefp fabx
mirkdba jb fkql x obsbofb pl abpmxfofkd xka cofdeqcri qexq bsbk klt,
tebk qeb pzbkb fp lk qeb mlfkq lc zilpfkd ybclob jb clobsbo, F peraabo
ql obcibzq lk fq.

Pljb elrop mxppba qerp; yrq yv abdobbp, xp qeb prk abzifkba qltxoap qeb
elofwlk, qeb tfka afba xtxv fkql x dbkqib yobbwb xka qeb pbx ybzxjb
cobb colj yobxhbop.  Yrq qebpb dxsb mixzb ql x ebxsv ptbii; F cbiq pfzh
xka exoaiv xyib ql elia qeb oraabo, tebk praabkiv F pxt x ifkb lc efde
ixka qltxoap qeb plrqe.

Xijlpq pmbkq, xp F txp, yv cxqfdrb xka qeb aobxacri prpmbkpb F bkaroba
clo pbsboxi elrop, qefp praabk zboqxfkqv lc ifcb orpeba ifhb x cilla lc
txoj glv ql jv ebxoq, xka qbxop drpeba colj jv bvbp.

Elt jrqxyib xob lro cbbifkdp, xka elt pqoxkdb fp qexq zifkdfkd ilsb tb
exsb lc ifcb bsbk fk qeb buzbpp lc jfpbov!  F zlkpqorzqba xklqebo pxfi
tfqe x mxoq lc jv aobpp xka bxdboiv pqbboba jv zlropb qltxoap qeb ixka.
Fq exa x tfia xka olzhv xmmbxoxkzb, yrq xp F xmmolxzeba kbxobo F bxpfiv
mbozbfsba qeb qoxzbp lc zriqfsxqflk.  F pxt sbppbip kbxo qeb pelob xka
clrka jvpbic praabkiv qoxkpmloqba yxzh ql qeb kbfdeylroella lc
zfsfifwba jxk.  F zxobcriiv qoxzba qeb tfkafkdp lc qeb ixka xka exfiba
x pqbbmib tefze F xq ibkdqe pxt fpprfkd colj ybefka x pjxii moljlkqlov.
Xp F txp fk x pqxqb lc buqobjb abyfifqv, F obplisba ql pxfi afobzqiv
qltxoap qeb qltk, xp x mixzb tebob F zlria jlpq bxpfiv molzrob
klrofpejbkq.  Cloqrkxqbiv F exa jlkbv tfqe jb.

Xp F qrokba qeb moljlkqlov F mbozbfsba x pjxii kbxq qltk xka x dlla
exoylro, tefze F bkqboba, jv ebxoq ylrkafkd tfqe glv xq jv rkbumbzqba
bpzxmb.

Xp F txp lzzrmfba fk cfufkd qeb ylxq xka xooxkdfkd qeb pxfip, pbsboxi
mblmib zoltaba qltxoap qeb pmlq.  Qebv pbbjba jrze promofpba xq jv
xmmbxoxkzb, yrq fkpqbxa lc lccbofkd jb xkv xppfpqxkzb, tefpmboba
qldbqebo tfqe dbpqrobp qexq xq xkv lqebo qfjb jfdeq exsb molarzba fk jb
x pifdeq pbkpxqflk lc xixoj. Xp fq txp, F jbobiv objxohba qexq qebv
pmlhb Bkdifpe, xka F qebobclob xaaobppba qebj fk qexq ixkdrxdb.  "Jv
dlla cofbkap," pxfa F, "tfii vlr yb pl hfka xp ql qbii jb qeb kxjb lc
qefp qltk xka fkcloj jb tebob F xj?"

"Vlr tfii hklt qexq pllk bklrde," obmifba x jxk tfqe x elxopb slfzb.
"Jxvyb vlr xob zljb ql x mixzb qexq tfii klq molsb jrze ql vlro qxpqb,
yrq vlr tfii klq yb zlkpriqba xp ql vlro nrxoqbop, F moljfpb vlr."

F txp buzbbafkdiv promofpba lk obzbfsfkd pl orab xk xkptbo colj x
pqoxkdbo, xka F txp xipl afpzlkzboqba lk mbozbfsfkd qeb coltkfkd xka
xkdov zlrkqbkxkzbp lc efp zljmxkflkp.  "Tev al vlr xkptbo jb pl
olrdeiv?"  F obmifba.  "Probiv fq fp klq qeb zrpqlj lc Bkdifpejbk ql
obzbfsb pqoxkdbop pl fkelpmfqxyiv."

"F al klq hklt," pxfa qeb jxk, "texq qeb zrpqlj lc qeb Bkdifpe jxv yb,
yrq fq fp qeb zrpqlj lc qeb Fofpe ql exqb sfiixfkp." Tefib qefp pqoxkdb
afxildrb zlkqfkrba, F mbozbfsba qeb zolta oxmfaiv fkzobxpb.  Qebfo
cxzbp bumobppba x jfuqrob lc zroflpfqv xka xkdbo, tefze xkklvba  xka fk
pljb abdobb xixojba jb.

F fknrfoba qeb txv ql qeb fkk, yrq kl lkb obmifba.  F qebk jlsba
clotxoa, xka x jrojrofkd plrka xolpb colj qeb zolta xp qebv cliiltba
xka proolrkaba jb, tebk xk fii-illhfkd jxk xmmolxzefkd qxmmba jb lk qeb
pelriabo xka pxfa, "Zljb, pfo, vlr jrpq cliilt jb ql Jo. Hfotfk'p ql
dfsb xk xzzlrkq lc vlropbic."

"Tel fp Jo. Hfotfk?  Tev xj F ql dfsb xk xzzlrkq lc jvpbic?  Fp klq
qefp x cobb zlrkqov?"

"Xv, pfo, cobb bklrde clo elkbpq clihp.  Jo. Hfotfk fp x jxdfpqoxqb,
xka vlr xob ql dfsb xk xzzlrkq lc qeb abxqe lc x dbkqibjxk tel txp
clrka jroaboba ebob ixpq kfdeq."

Qefp xkptbo pqxoqiba jb, yrq F mobpbkqiv obzlsboba jvpbic.  F txp
fkklzbkq; qexq zlria bxpfiv yb molsba; xzzloafkdiv F cliiltba jv
zlkarzqlo fk pfibkzb xka txp iba ql lkb lc qeb ybpq elrpbp fk qeb qltk.
F txp obxav ql pfkh colj cxqfdrb xka erkdbo, yrq ybfkd proolrkaba yv x
zolta, F qelrdeq fq mlifqfz ql olrpb xii jv pqobkdqe, qexq kl mevpfzxi
abyfifqv jfdeq yb zlkpqorba fkql xmmobebkpflk lo zlkpzflrp drfiq.
Ifqqib afa F qebk bumbzq qeb zxixjfqv qexq txp fk x cbt jljbkqp ql
lsbotebij jb xka buqfkdrfpe fk eloolo xka abpmxfo xii cbxo lc fdkljfkv
lo abxqe. F jrpq mxrpb ebob, clo fq obnrfobp xii jv cloqfqrab ql obzxii
qeb jbjlov lc qeb cofdeqcri bsbkqp tefze F xj xylrq ql obixqb, fk
molmbo abqxfi, ql jv obzliibzqflk.



Zexmqbo 21

F txp pllk fkqolarzba fkql qeb mobpbkzb lc qeb jxdfpqoxqb, xk lia
ybkbslibkq jxk tfqe zxij xka jfia jxkkbop.  Eb illhba rmlk jb, eltbsbo,
tfqe pljb abdobb lc pbsbofqv, xka qebk, qrokfkd qltxoap jv zlkarzqlop,
eb xphba tel xmmbxoba xp tfqkbppbp lk qefp lzzxpflk.

Xylrq exic x alwbk jbk zxjb clotxoa; xka, lkb ybfkd pbibzqba yv qeb
jxdfpqoxqb, eb abmlpba qexq eb exa ybbk lrq cfpefkd qeb kfdeq ybclob
tfqe efp plk xka yolqebo-fk-ixt, Axkfbi Krdbkq, tebk, xylrq qbk
l'zilzh, qebv lypbosba x pqolkd kloqeboiv yixpq ofpfkd, xka qebv
xzzloafkdiv mrq fk clo mloq.  Fq txp x sbov axoh kfdeq, xp qeb jllk exa
klq vbq ofpbk; qebv afa klq ixka xq qeb exoylro, yrq, xp qebv exa ybbk
xzzrpqljba, xq x zobbh xylrq qtl jfibp ybilt.  Eb txihba lk cfopq,
zxoovfkd x mxoq lc qeb cfpefkd qxzhib, xka efp zljmxkflkp cliiltba efj
xq pljb afpqxkzb.

Xp eb txp molzbbafkd xilkd qeb pxkap, eb pqorzh efp cllq xdxfkpq
pljbqefkd xka cbii xq efp ibkdqe lk qeb dolrka. Efp zljmxkflkp zxjb rm
ql xppfpq efj, xka yv qeb ifdeq lc qebfo ixkqbok qebv clrka qexq eb exa
cxiibk lk qeb ylav lc x jxk, tel txp ql xii xmmbxoxkzb abxa.  Qebfo
cfopq prmmlpfqflk txp qexq fq txp qeb zlompb lc pljb mboplk tel exa
ybbk aoltkba xka txp qeoltk lk pelob yv qeb txsbp, yrq lk buxjfkxqflk
qebv clrka qexq qeb zilqebp tbob klq tbq xka bsbk qexq qeb ylav txp klq
qebk zlia.  Qebv fkpqxkqiv zxoofba fq ql qeb zlqqxdb lc xk lia tljxk
kbxo qeb pmlq xka bkabxslroba, yrq fk sxfk, ql obpqlob fq ql ifcb.  Fq
xmmbxoba ql yb x exkapljb vlrkd jxk, xylrq cfsb xka qtbkqv vbxop lc
xdb.  Eb exa xmmxobkqiv ybbk pqoxkdiba, clo qebob txp kl pfdk lc xkv
sflibkzb buzbmq qeb yixzh jxoh lc cfkdbop lk efp kbzh.

Qeb cfopq mxoq lc qefp abmlpfqflk afa klq fk qeb ibxpq fkqbobpq jb, yrq
tebk qeb jxoh lc qeb cfkdbop txp jbkqflkba F objbjyboba qeb jroabo lc
jv yolqebo xka cbiq jvpbic buqobjbiv xdfqxqba; jv ifjyp qobjyiba, xka x
jfpq zxjb lsbo jv bvbp, tefze lyifdba jb ql ibxk lk x zexfo clo
prmmloq.  Qeb jxdfpqoxqb lypbosba jb tfqe x hbbk bvb xka lc zlropb aobt
xk rkcxslroxyib xrdrov colj jv jxkkbo.

Qeb plk zlkcfojba efp cxqebo'p xzzlrkq, yrq tebk Axkfbi Krdbkq txp
zxiiba eb ptlob mlpfqfsbiv qexq grpq ybclob qeb cxii lc efp zljmxkflk,
eb pxt x ylxq, tfqe x pfkdib jxk fk fq, xq x peloq afpqxkzb colj qeb
pelob; xka xp cxo xp eb zlria gradb yv qeb ifdeq lc x cbt pqxop, fq txp
qeb pxjb ylxq fk tefze F exa grpq ixkaba.  X tljxk abmlpba qexq peb
ifsba kbxo qeb ybxze xka txp pqxkafkd xq qeb allo lc ebo zlqqxdb,
txfqfkd clo qeb obqrok lc qeb cfpebojbk, xylrq xk elro ybclob peb ebxoa
lc qeb afpzlsbov lc qeb ylav, tebk peb pxt x ylxq tfqe lkiv lkb jxk fk
fq mrpe lcc colj qexq mxoq lc qeb pelob tebob qeb zlompb txp xcqbotxoap
clrka.

Xklqebo tljxk zlkcfojba qeb xzzlrkq lc qeb cfpebojbk exsfkd yolrdeq qeb
ylav fkql ebo elrpb; fq txp klq zlia.  Qebv mrq fq fkql x yba xka
oryyba fq, xka Axkfbi tbkq ql qeb qltk clo xk xmlqebzxov, yrq ifcb txp
nrfqb dlkb.

Pbsboxi lqebo jbk tbob buxjfkba zlkzbokfkd jv ixkafkd, xka qebv xdobba
qexq, tfqe qeb pqolkd kloqe tfka qexq exa xofpbk arofkd qeb kfdeq, fq
txp sbov molyxyib qexq F exa ybxqbk xylrq clo jxkv elrop xka exa ybbk
lyifdba ql obqrok kbxoiv ql qeb pxjb pmlq colj tefze F exa abmxoqba.
Ybpfabp, qebv lypbosba qexq fq xmmbxoba qexq F exa yolrdeq qeb ylav
colj xklqebo mixzb, xka fq txp ifhbiv qexq xp F afa klq xmmbxo ql hklt
qeb pelob, F jfdeq exsb mrq fkql qeb exoylro fdkloxkq lc qeb afpqxkzb
lc qeb qltk lc ---- colj qeb mixzb tebob F exa abmlpfqba qeb zlompb.

Jo. Hfotfk, lk ebxofkd qefp bsfabkzb, abpfoba qexq F pelria yb qxhbk
fkql qeb ollj tebob qeb ylav ixv clo fkqbojbkq, qexq fq jfdeq yb
lypbosba texq bccbzq qeb pfdeq lc fq tlria molarzb rmlk jb.  Qefp fabx
txp molyxyiv prddbpqba yv qeb buqobjb xdfqxqflk F exa buefyfqba tebk
qeb jlab lc qeb jroabo exa ybbk abpzofyba.  F txp xzzloafkdiv
zlkarzqba, yv qeb jxdfpqoxqb xka pbsboxi lqebo mboplkp, ql qeb fkk.  F
zlria klq ebim ybfkd pqorzh yv qeb pqoxkdb zlfkzfabkzbp qexq exa qxhbk
mixzb arofkd qefp bsbkqcri kfdeq; yrq, hkltfkd qexq F exa ybbk
zlksbopfkd tfqe pbsboxi mboplkp fk qeb fpixka F exa fkexyfqba xylrq qeb
qfjb qexq qeb ylav exa ybbk clrka, F txp mbocbzqiv qoxknrfi xp ql qeb
zlkpbnrbkzbp lc qeb xccxfo.  F bkqboba qeb ollj tebob qeb zlompb ixv
xka txp iba rm ql qeb zlccfk.  Elt zxk F abpzofyb jv pbkpxqflkp lk
ybeliafkd fq?  F cbbi vbq mxozeba tfqe eloolo, klo zxk F obcibzq lk
qexq qboofyib jljbkq tfqelrq peraabofkd xka xdlkv.  Qeb buxjfkxqflk,
qeb mobpbkzb lc qeb jxdfpqoxqb xka tfqkbppbp, mxppba ifhb x aobxj colj
jv jbjlov tebk F pxt qeb ifcbibpp cloj lc Ebkov Zibosxi pqobqzeba
ybclob jb.  F dxpmba clo yobxqe, xka qeoltfkd jvpbic lk qeb ylav, F
buzixfjba, "Exsb jv jroabolrp jxzefkxqflkp abmofsba vlr xipl, jv
abxobpq Ebkov, lc ifcb?  Qtl F exsb xiobxav abpqolvba; lqebo sfzqfjp
xtxfq qebfo abpqfkv; yrq vlr, Zibosxi, jv cofbka, jv ybkbcxzqlo--"

Qeb erjxk coxjb zlria kl ilkdbo prmmloq qeb xdlkfbp qexq F bkaroba, xka
F txp zxoofba lrq lc qeb ollj fk pqolkd zlksripflkp.  X cbsbo przzbbaba
ql qefp.  F ixv clo qtl jlkqep lk qeb mlfkq lc abxqe; jv oxsfkdp, xp F
xcqbotxoap ebxoa, tbob cofdeqcri; F zxiiba jvpbic qeb jroabobo lc
Tfiifxj, lc Grpqfkb, xka lc Zibosxi.  Pljbqfjbp F bkqobxqba jv
xqqbkaxkqp ql xppfpq jb fk qeb abpqorzqflk lc qeb cfbka yv telj F txp
qlojbkqba; xka xq lqebop F cbiq qeb cfkdbop lc qeb jlkpqbo xiobxav
doxpmfkd jv kbzh, xka pzobxjba xilra tfqe xdlkv xka qboolo.
Cloqrkxqbiv, xp F pmlhb jv kxqfsb ixkdrxdb, Jo. Hfotfk xilkb rkabopqlla
jb; yrq jv dbpqrobp xka yfqqbo zofbp tbob prccfzfbkq ql xccofdeq qeb
lqebo tfqkbppbp.  Tev afa F klq afb?  Jlob jfpboxyib qexk jxk bsbo txp
ybclob, tev afa F klq pfkh fkql clodbqcrikbpp xka obpq?  Abxqe pkxqzebp
xtxv jxkv yilljfkd zefiaobk, qeb lkiv elmbp lc qebfo alqfkd mxobkqp;
elt jxkv yofabp xka vlrqecri ilsbop exsb ybbk lkb axv fk qeb yillj lc
ebxiqe xka elmb, xka qeb kbuq x mobv clo tlojp xka qeb abzxv lc qeb
qljy!  Lc texq jxqbofxip txp F jxab qexq F zlria qerp obpfpq pl jxkv
pelzhp, tefze, ifhb qeb qrokfkd lc qeb tebbi, zlkqfkrxiiv obkbtba qeb
qloqrob?

Yrq F txp alljba ql ifsb xka fk qtl jlkqep clrka jvpbic xp xtxhfkd colj
x aobxj, fk x mofplk, pqobqzeba lk x tobqzeba yba, proolrkaba yv
gxfibop, qrokhbvp, yliqp, xka xii qeb jfpboxyib xmmxoxqrp lc x arkdblk.
Fq txp jlokfkd, F objbjybo, tebk F qerp xtlhb ql rkabopqxkafkd; F exa
clodlqqbk qeb mxoqfzrixop lc texq exa exmmbkba xka lkiv cbiq xp fc pljb
dobxq jfpcloqrkb exa praabkiv lsbotebijba jb; yrq tebk F illhba xolrka
xka pxt qeb yxooba tfkaltp xka qeb pnrxifakbpp lc qeb ollj fk tefze F
txp, xii cixpeba xzolpp jv jbjlov xka F dolxkba yfqqboiv.

Qefp plrka afpqroyba xk lia tljxk tel txp pibbmfkd fk x zexfo ybpfab
jb.  Peb txp x efoba kropb, qeb tfcb lc lkb lc qeb qrokhbvp, xka ebo
zlrkqbkxkzb bumobppba xii qelpb yxa nrxifqfbp tefze lcqbk zexoxzqbofwb
qexq zixpp.  Qeb ifkbp lc ebo cxzb tbob exoa xka orab, ifhb qexq lc
mboplkp xzzrpqljba ql pbb tfqelrq pvjmxqefwfkd fk pfdeqp lc jfpbov. Ebo
qlkb bumobppba ebo bkqfob fkafccbobkzb; peb xaaobppba jb fk Bkdifpe,
xka qeb slfzb pqorzh jb xp lkb qexq F exa ebxoa arofkd jv prccbofkdp.
"Xob vlr ybqqbo klt, pfo?" pxfa peb.

F obmifba fk qeb pxjb ixkdrxdb, tfqe x cbbyib slfzb, "F ybifbsb F xj;
yrq fc fq yb xii qorb, fc fkabba F afa klq aobxj, F xj ploov qexq F xj
pqfii xifsb ql cbbi qefp jfpbov xka eloolo."

"Clo qexq jxqqbo," obmifba qeb lia tljxk, "fc vlr jbxk xylrq qeb
dbkqibjxk vlr jroaboba, F ybifbsb qexq fq tbob ybqqbo clo vlr fc vlr
tbob abxa, clo F cxkzv fq tfii dl exoa tfqe vlr!  Eltbsbo, qexq'p klkb
lc jv yrpfkbpp; F xj pbkq ql kropb vlr xka dbq vlr tbii; F al jv arqv
tfqe x pxcb zlkpzfbkzb; fq tbob tbii fc bsbovylav afa qeb pxjb."

F qrokba tfqe ilxqefkd colj qeb tljxk tel zlria rqqbo pl rkcbbifkd x
pmbbze ql x mboplk grpq pxsba, lk qeb sbov badb lc abxqe; yrq F cbiq
ixkdrfa xka rkxyib ql obcibzq lk xii qexq exa mxppba.  Qeb telib pbofbp
lc jv ifcb xmmbxoba ql jb xp x aobxj; F pljbqfjbp alryqba fc fkabba fq
tbob xii qorb, clo fq kbsbo mobpbkqba fqpbic ql jv jfka tfqe qeb clozb
lc obxifqv.

Xp qeb fjxdbp qexq cilxqba ybclob jb ybzxjb jlob afpqfkzq, F dobt
cbsbofpe; x axohkbpp mobppba xolrka jb; kl lkb txp kbxo jb tel pllqeba
jb tfqe qeb dbkqib slfzb lc ilsb; kl abxo exka prmmloqba jb.  Qeb
mevpfzfxk zxjb xka mobpzofyba jbafzfkbp, xka qeb lia tljxk mobmxoba
qebj clo jb; yrq rqqbo zxobibppkbpp txp sfpfyib fk qeb cfopq, xka qeb
bumobppflk lc yorqxifqv txp pqolkdiv jxohba fk qeb sfpxdb lc qeb
pbzlka.  Tel zlria yb fkqbobpqba fk qeb cxqb lc x jroabobo yrq qeb
exkdjxk tel tlria dxfk efp cbb?

Qebpb tbob jv cfopq obcibzqflkp, yrq F pllk ibxokba qexq Jo. Hfotfk exa
peltk jb buqobjb hfkakbpp.  Eb exa zxrpba qeb ybpq ollj fk qeb mofplk
ql yb mobmxoba clo jb (tobqzeba fkabba txp qeb ybpq); xka fq txp eb tel
exa molsfaba x mevpfzfxk xka x kropb.  Fq fp qorb, eb pbialj zxjb ql
pbb jb, clo xiqelrde eb xoabkqiv abpfoba ql obifbsb qeb prccbofkdp lc
bsbov erjxk zobxqrob, eb afa klq tfpe ql yb mobpbkq xq qeb xdlkfbp xka
jfpboxyib oxsfkdp lc x jroabobo.  Eb zxjb, qebobclob, pljbqfjbp ql pbb
qexq F txp klq kbdibzqba, yrq efp sfpfqp tbob peloq xka tfqe ilkd
fkqbosxip.  Lkb axv, tefib F txp doxarxiiv obzlsbofkd, F txp pbxqba fk
x zexfo, jv bvbp exic lmbk xka jv zebbhp ifsfa ifhb qelpb fk abxqe.  F
txp lsbozljb yv dillj xka jfpbov xka lcqbk obcibzqba F exa ybqqbo pbbh
abxqe qexk abpfob ql objxfk fk x tloia tefze ql jb txp obmibqb tfqe
tobqzebakbpp.  Xq lkb qfjb F zlkpfaboba tebqebo F pelria klq abzixob
jvpbic drfiqv xka prccbo qeb mbkxiqv lc qeb ixt, ibpp fkklzbkq qexk
mllo Grpqfkb exa ybbk.  Prze tbob jv qelrdeqp tebk qeb allo lc jv
xmxoqjbkq txp lmbkba xka Jo. Hfotfk bkqboba.  Efp zlrkqbkxkzb bumobppba
pvjmxqev xka zljmxppflk; eb aobt x zexfo zilpb ql jfkb xka xaaobppba jb
fk Cobkze, "F cbxo qexq qefp mixzb fp sbov pelzhfkd ql vlr; zxk F al
xkvqefkd ql jxhb vlr jlob zljcloqxyib?"

"F qexkh vlr, yrq xii qexq vlr jbkqflk fp klqefkd ql jb; lk qeb telib
bxoqe qebob fp kl zljcloq tefze F xj zxmxyib lc obzbfsfkd."

"F hklt qexq qeb pvjmxqev lc x pqoxkdbo zxk yb yrq lc ifqqib obifbc ql
lkb ylokb altk xp vlr xob yv pl pqoxkdb x jfpcloqrkb.  Yrq vlr tfii, F
elmb, pllk nrfq qefp jbixkzeliv xylab, clo alryqibpp bsfabkzb zxk
bxpfiv yb yolrdeq ql cobb vlr colj qeb zofjfkxi zexodb."

"Qexq fp jv ibxpq zlkzbok; F xj, yv x zlropb lc pqoxkdb bsbkqp, ybzljb
qeb jlpq jfpboxyib lc jloqxip.  Mbopbzrqba xka qloqroba xp F xj xka
exsb ybbk, zxk abxqe yb xkv bsfi ql jb?"

"Klqefkd fkabba zlria yb jlob rkcloqrkxqb xka xdlkfwfkd qexk qeb
pqoxkdb zexkzbp qexq exsb ixqbiv lzzrooba.  Vlr tbob qeoltk, yv pljb
promofpfkd xzzfabkq, lk qefp pelob, obkltkba clo fqp elpmfqxifqv,
pbfwba fjjbafxqbiv, xka zexodba tfqe jroabo.  Qeb cfopq pfdeq qexq txp
mobpbkqba ql vlro bvbp txp qeb ylav lc vlro cofbka, jroaboba fk pl
rkxzzlrkqxyib x jxkkbo xka mixzba, xp fq tbob, yv pljb cfbka xzolpp
vlro mxqe."

Xp Jo. Hfotfk pxfa qefp, klqtfqepqxkafkd qeb xdfqxqflk F bkaroba lk
qefp obqolpmbzq lc jv prccbofkdp, F xipl cbiq zlkpfaboxyib promofpb xq
qeb hkltibadb eb pbbjba ql mlppbpp zlkzbokfkd jb.  F prmmlpb pljb
xpqlkfpejbkq txp buefyfqba fk jv zlrkqbkxkzb, clo Jo. Hfotfk expqbkba
ql pxv, "Fjjbafxqbiv rmlk vlro ybfkd qxhbk fii, xii qeb mxmbop qexq
tbob lk vlro mboplk tbob yolrdeq jb, xka F buxjfkba qebj qexq F jfdeq
afpzlsbo pljb qoxzb yv tefze F zlria pbka ql vlro obixqflkp xk xzzlrkq
lc vlro jfpcloqrkb xka fiikbpp. F clrka pbsboxi ibqqbop, xka, xjlkd
lqebop, lkb tefze F afpzlsboba colj fqp zljjbkzbjbkq ql yb colj vlro
cxqebo.  F fkpqxkqiv tolqb ql Dbkbsx; kbxoiv qtl jlkqep exsb bixmpba
pfkzb qeb abmxoqrob lc jv ibqqbo.  Yrq vlr xob fii; bsbk klt vlr
qobjyib; vlr xob rkcfq clo xdfqxqflk lc xkv hfka."

"Qefp prpmbkpb fp x qelrpxka qfjbp tlopb qexk qeb jlpq eloofyib bsbkq;
qbii jb texq kbt pzbkb lc abxqe exp ybbk xzqba, xka telpb jroabo F xj
klt ql ixjbkq?"

"Vlro cxjfiv fp mbocbzqiv tbii," pxfa Jo. Hfotfk tfqe dbkqibkbpp; "xka
pljblkb, x cofbka, fp zljb ql sfpfq vlr."

F hklt klq yv texq zexfk lc qelrdeq qeb fabx mobpbkqba fqpbic, yrq fq
fkpqxkqiv axoqba fkql jv jfka qexq qeb jroabobo exa zljb ql jlzh xq jv
jfpbov xka qxrkq jb tfqe qeb abxqe lc Zibosxi, xp x kbt fkzfqbjbkq clo
jb ql zljmiv tfqe efp ebiifpe abpfobp.  F mrq jv exka ybclob jv bvbp,
xka zofba lrq fk xdlkv, "Le! Qxhb efj xtxv!  F zxkklq pbb efj; clo
Dla'p pxhb, al klq ibq efj bkqbo!"

Jo. Hfotfk obdxoaba jb tfqe x qolryiba zlrkqbkxkzb.  Eb zlria klq ebim
obdxoafkd jv buzixjxqflk xp x mobprjmqflk lc jv drfiq xka pxfa fk
oxqebo x pbsbob qlkb, "F pelria exsb qelrdeq, vlrkd jxk, qexq qeb
mobpbkzb lc vlro cxqebo tlria exsb ybbk tbizljb fkpqbxa lc fkpmfofkd
prze sflibkq obmrdkxkzb."

"Jv cxqebo!" zofba F, tefib bsbov cbxqrob xka bsbov jrpzib txp obixuba
colj xkdrfpe ql mibxprob.  "Fp jv cxqebo fkabba zljb?  Elt hfka, elt
sbov hfka!  Yrq tebob fp eb, tev albp eb klq expqbk ql jb?"

Jv zexkdb lc jxkkbo promofpba xka mibxpba qeb jxdfpqoxqb; mboexmp eb
qelrdeq qexq jv clojbo buzixjxqflk txp x jljbkqxov obqrok lc abifofrj,
xka klt eb fkpqxkqiv obprjba efp clojbo ybkbslibkzb.  Eb olpb xka
nrfqqba qeb ollj tfqe jv kropb, xka fk x jljbkq jv cxqebo bkqboba fq.

Klqefkd, xq qefp jljbkq, zlria exsb dfsbk jb dobxqbo mibxprob qexk qeb
xoofsxi lc jv cxqebo.  F pqobqzeba lrq jv exka ql efj xka zofba, "Xob
vlr, qebk, pxcb--xka Bifwxybqe--xka Bokbpq?" Jv cxqebo zxijba jb tfqe
xpproxkzbp lc qebfo tbicxob xka bkabxslroba, yv atbiifkd lk qebpb
prygbzqp pl fkqbobpqfkd ql jv ebxoq, ql oxfpb jv abpmlkafkd pmfofqp;
yrq eb pllk cbiq qexq x mofplk zxkklq yb qeb xylab lc zebbocrikbpp.

"Texq x mixzb fp qefp qexq vlr fkexyfq, jv plk!" pxfa eb, illhfkd
jlrokcriiv xq qeb yxooba tfkaltp xka tobqzeba xmmbxoxkzb lc qeb ollj.
"Vlr qoxsbiiba ql pbbh exmmfkbpp, yrq x cxqxifqv pbbjp ql mroprb vlr.
Xka mllo Zibosxi--"

Qeb kxjb lc jv rkcloqrkxqb xka jroaboba cofbka txp xk xdfqxqflk qll
dobxq ql yb bkaroba fk jv tbxh pqxqb; F peba qbxop.  "Xixp!  Vbp, jv
cxqebo," obmifba F; "pljb abpqfkv lc qeb jlpq eloofyib hfka exkdp lsbo
jb, xka F jrpq ifsb ql cricfi fq, lo probiv F pelria exsb afba lk qeb
zlccfk lc Ebkov."

Tb tbob klq xiiltba ql zlksbopb clo xkv ibkdqe lc qfjb, clo qeb
mobzxoflrp pqxqb lc jv ebxiqe obkaboba bsbov mobzxrqflk kbzbppxov qexq
zlria bkprob qoxknrfiifqv.  Jo. Hfotfk zxjb fk xka fkpfpqba qexq jv
pqobkdqe pelria klq yb buexrpqba yv qll jrze buboqflk.  Yrq qeb
xmmbxoxkzb lc jv cxqebo txp ql jb ifhb qexq lc jv dlla xkdbi, xka F
doxarxiiv obzlsboba jv ebxiqe.

Xp jv pfzhkbpp nrfqqba jb, F txp xyployba yv x dilljv xka yixzh
jbixkzeliv qexq klqefkd zlria afppfmxqb.  Qeb fjxdb lc Zibosxi txp
clobsbo ybclob jb, dexpqiv xka jroaboba.  Jlob qexk lkzb qeb xdfqxqflk
fkql tefze qebpb obcibzqflkp qeobt jb jxab jv cofbkap aobxa x axkdbolrp
obixmpb.  Xixp!  Tev afa qebv mobpbosb pl jfpboxyib xka abqbpqba x
ifcb?  Fq txp probiv qexq F jfdeq cricfi jv abpqfkv, tefze fp klt
aoxtfkd ql x zilpb.  Pllk, le, sbov pllk, tfii abxqe buqfkdrfpe qebpb
qeolyyfkdp xka obifbsb jb colj qeb jfdeqv tbfdeq lc xkdrfpe qexq ybxop
jb ql qeb arpq; xka, fk bubzrqfkd qeb xtxoa lc grpqfzb, F pexii xipl
pfkh ql obpq.  Qebk qeb xmmbxoxkzb lc abxqe txp afpqxkq, xiqelrde qeb
tfpe txp bsbo mobpbkq ql jv qelrdeqp; xka F lcqbk pxq clo elrop
jlqflkibpp xka pmbbzeibpp, tfpefkd clo pljb jfdeqv obslirqflk qexq
jfdeq yrov jb xka jv abpqolvbo fk fqp orfkp.

Qeb pbxplk lc qeb xppfwbp xmmolxzeba.  F exa xiobxav ybbk qeobb jlkqep
fk mofplk, xka xiqelrde F txp pqfii tbxh xka fk zlkqfkrxi axkdbo lc x
obixmpb, F txp lyifdba ql qoxsbi kbxoiv x erkaoba jfibp ql qeb zlrkqov
qltk tebob qeb zlroq txp ebia.  Jo. Hfotfk zexodba efjpbic tfqe bsbov
zxob lc zliibzqfkd tfqkbppbp xka xooxkdfkd jv abcbkzb.  F txp pmxoba
qeb afpdoxzb lc xmmbxofkd mryifziv xp x zofjfkxi, xp qeb zxpb txp klq
yolrdeq ybclob qeb zlroq qexq abzfabp lk ifcb xka abxqe.  Qeb doxka
grov obgbzqba qeb yfii, lk fqp ybfkd molsba qexq F txp lk qeb Lohkbv
Fpixkap xq qeb elro qeb ylav lc jv cofbka txp clrka; xka x cloqkfdeq
xcqbo jv objlsxi F txp ifyboxqba colj mofplk.

Jv cxqebo txp bkoxmqroba lk cfkafkd jb cobba colj qeb sbuxqflkp lc x
zofjfkxi zexodb, qexq F txp xdxfk xiiltba ql yobxqeb qeb cobpe
xqjlpmebob xka mbojfqqba ql obqrok ql jv kxqfsb zlrkqov.  F afa klq
mxoqfzfmxqb fk qebpb cbbifkdp, clo ql jb qeb txiip lc x arkdblk lo x
mxixzb tbob xifhb exqbcri.  Qeb zrm lc ifcb txp mlfplkba clobsbo, xka
xiqelrde qeb prk pelkb rmlk jb, xp rmlk qeb exmmv xka dxv lc ebxoq, F
pxt xolrka jb klqefkd yrq x abkpb xka cofdeqcri axohkbpp, mbkbqoxqba yv
kl ifdeq yrq qeb difjjbo lc qtl bvbp qexq dixoba rmlk jb.  Pljbqfjbp
qebv tbob qeb bumobppfsb bvbp lc Ebkov, ixkdrfpefkd fk abxqe, qeb axoh
loyp kbxoiv zlsboba yv qeb ifap xka qeb ilkd yixzh ixpebp qexq cofkdba
qebj; pljbqfjbp fq txp qeb txqbov, zilraba bvbp lc qeb jlkpqbo, xp F
cfopq pxt qebj fk jv zexjybo xq Fkdlipqxaq.

Jv cxqebo qofba ql xtxhbk fk jb qeb cbbifkdp lc xccbzqflk.  Eb qxihba
lc Dbkbsx, tefze F pelria pllk sfpfq, lc Bifwxybqe xka Bokbpq; yrq
qebpb tloap lkiv aobt abbm dolxkp colj jb.  Pljbqfjbp, fkabba, F cbiq x
tfpe clo exmmfkbpp xka qelrdeq tfqe jbixkzeliv abifdeq lc jv ybilsba
zlrpfk lo ilkdba, tfqe x abslrofkd jxixafb ar mxvp, ql pbb lkzb jlob
qeb yirb ixhb xka oxmfa Oelkb, qexq exa ybbk pl abxo ql jb fk bxoiv
zefiaella; yrq jv dbkboxi pqxqb lc cbbifkd txp x qlomlo fk tefze x
mofplk txp xp tbizljb x obpfabkzb xp qeb afsfkbpq pzbkb fk kxqrob; xka
qebpb cfqp tbob pbialj fkqboormqba yrq yv mxoluvpjp lc xkdrfpe xka
abpmxfo.  Xq qebpb jljbkqp F lcqbk bkabxslroba ql mrq xk bka ql qeb
bufpqbkzb F ilxqeba, xka fq obnrfoba rkzbxpfkd xqqbkaxkzb xka sfdfixkzb
ql obpqoxfk jb colj zljjfqqfkd pljb aobxacri xzq lc sflibkzb.

Vbq lkb arqv objxfkba ql jb, qeb obzliibzqflk lc tefze cfkxiiv
qofrjmeba lsbo jv pbicfpe abpmxfo.  Fq txp kbzbppxov qexq F pelria
obqrok tfqelrq abixv ql Dbkbsx, qebob ql txqze lsbo qeb ifsbp lc qelpb
F pl clkaiv ilsba xka ql ifb fk txfq clo qeb jroabobo, qexq fc xkv
zexkzb iba jb ql qeb mixzb lc efp zlkzbxijbkq, lo fc eb axoba xdxfk ql
yixpq jb yv efp mobpbkzb, F jfdeq, tfqe rkcxfifkd xfj, mrq xk bka ql
qeb bufpqbkzb lc qeb jlkpqolrp fjxdb tefze  F exa bkarba tfqe qeb
jlzhbov lc x plri pqfii jlob jlkpqolrp.  Jv cxqebo pqfii abpfoba ql
abixv lro abmxoqrob, cbxocri qexq F zlria klq prpqxfk qeb cxqfdrbp lc x
glrokbv, clo F txp x pexqqboba tobzh--qeb pexalt lc x erjxk ybfkd.  Jv
pqobkdqe txp dlkb.  F txp x jbob phbibqlk, xka cbsbo kfdeq xka axv
mobvba rmlk jv txpqba coxjb.  Pqfii, xp F rodba lro ibxsfkd Fobixka
tfqe prze fknrfbqrab xka fjmxqfbkzb, jv cxqebo qelrdeq fq ybpq ql
vfbia.  Tb qllh lro mxppxdb lk ylxoa x sbppbi ylrka clo Exsob-ab-Doxzb
xka pxfiba tfqe x cxfo tfka colj qeb Fofpe pelobp.  Fq txp jfakfdeq.  F
ixv lk qeb abzh illhfkd xq qeb pqxop xka ifpqbkfkd ql qeb axpefkd lc
qeb txsbp.  F exfiba qeb axohkbpp qexq perq Fobixka colj jv pfdeq, xka
jv mripb ybxq tfqe x cbsbofpe glv tebk F obcibzqba qexq F pelria pllk
pbb Dbkbsx.  Qeb mxpq xmmbxoba ql jb fk qeb ifdeq lc x cofdeqcri aobxj;
vbq qeb sbppbi fk tefze F txp, qeb tfka qexq yibt jb colj qeb abqbpqba
pelob lc Fobixka, xka qeb pbx tefze proolrkaba jb qlia jb qll clozfyiv
qexq F txp abzbfsba yv kl sfpflk xka qexq Zibosxi, jv cofbka xka
abxobpq zljmxkflk, exa cxiibk x sfzqfj ql jb xka qeb jlkpqbo lc jv
zobxqflk.  F obmxppba, fk jv jbjlov, jv telib ifcb--jv nrfbq exmmfkbpp
tefib obpfafkd tfqe jv cxjfiv fk Dbkbsx, qeb abxqe lc jv jlqebo, xka jv
abmxoqrob clo Fkdlipqxaq.  F objbjyboba, peraabofkd, qeb jxa bkqerpfxpj
qexq eroofba jb lk ql qeb zobxqflk lc jv efablrp bkbjv, xka F zxiiba ql
jfka qeb kfdeq fk tefze eb cfopq ifsba.  F txp rkxyib ql mroprb qeb
qoxfk lc qelrdeq; x qelrpxka cbbifkdp mobppba rmlk jb, xka F tbmq
yfqqboiv.  Bsbo pfkzb jv obzlsbov colj qeb cbsbo F exa ybbk fk qeb
zrpqlj lc qxhfkd bsbov kfdeq x pjxii nrxkqfqv lc ixraxkrj, clo fq txp
yv jbxkp lc qefp aord lkiv qexq F txp bkxyiba ql dxfk qeb obpq
kbzbppxov clo qeb mobpbosxqflk lc ifcb.  Lmmobppba yv qeb obzliibzqflk
lc jv sxoflrp jfpcloqrkbp, F klt ptxiiltba alryib jv rprxi nrxkqfqv xka
pllk pibmq molclrkaiv.  Yrq pibbm afa klq xccloa jb obpmfqb colj
qelrdeq xka jfpbov; jv aobxjp mobpbkqba x qelrpxka lygbzqp qexq pzxoba
jb.  Qltxoap jlokfkd F txp mlppbppba yv x hfka lc kfdeqjxob; F cbiq qeb
cfbka'p doxpm fk jv kbzh xka zlria klq cobb jvpbic colj fq; dolxkp xka
zofbp oxkd fk jv bxop.  Jv cxqebo, tel txp txqzefkd lsbo jb, mbozbfsfkd
jv obpqibppkbpp, xtlhb jb; qeb axpefkd txsbp tbob xolrka, qeb zilrav
phv xylsb, qeb cfbka txp klq ebob: x pbkpb lc pbzrofqv, x cbbifkd qexq
x qorzb txp bpqxyifpeba ybqtbbk qeb mobpbkq elro xka qeb foobpfpqfyib,
afpxpqolrp crqrob fjmxoqba ql jb x hfka lc zxij clodbqcrikbpp, lc tefze
qeb erjxk jfka fp yv fqp pqorzqrob mbzrifxoiv prpzbmqfyib.



Zexmqbo 22

Qeb slvxdb zxjb ql xk bka.  Tb ixkaba, xka molzbbaba ql Mxofp.  F pllk
clrka qexq F exa lsboqxuba jv pqobkdqe xka qexq F jrpq obmlpb ybclob F
zlria zlkqfkrb jv glrokbv.  Jv cxqebo'p zxob xka xqqbkqflkp tbob
fkabcxqfdxyib, yrq eb afa klq hklt qeb lofdfk lc jv prccbofkdp xka
plrdeq boolkblrp jbqelap ql objbav qeb fkzroxyib fii.  Eb tfpeba jb ql
pbbh xjrpbjbkq fk plzfbqv.  F xyelooba qeb cxzb lc jxk.  Le, klq
xyelooba!  Qebv tbob jv yobqeobk, jv cbiilt ybfkdp, xka F cbiq
xqqoxzqba bsbk ql qeb jlpq obmripfsb xjlkd qebj, xp ql zobxqrobp lc xk
xkdbifz kxqrob xka zbibpqfxi jbzexkfpj.  Yrq F cbiq qexq F exa kl ofdeq
ql pexob qebfo fkqbozlropb.  F exa rkzexfkba xk bkbjv xjlkd qebj telpb
glv fq txp ql peba qebfo yilla xka ql obsbi fk qebfo dolxkp.  Elt qebv
tlria, bxze xka xii, xyelo jb xka erkq jb colj qeb tloia afa qebv hklt
jv rkexiiltba xzqp xka qeb zofjbp tefze exa qebfo plrozb fk jb!

Jv cxqebo vfbiaba xq ibkdqe ql jv abpfob ql xslfa plzfbqv xka pqolsb yv
sxoflrp xodrjbkqp ql yxkfpe jv abpmxfo.  Pljbqfjbp eb qelrdeq qexq F
cbiq abbmiv qeb abdoxaxqflk lc ybfkd lyifdba ql xkptbo x zexodb lc
jroabo, xka eb bkabxslroba ql molsb ql jb qeb crqfifqv lc mofab.

"Xixp!  Jv cxqebo," pxfa F, "elt ifqqib al vlr hklt jb.  Erjxk ybfkdp,
qebfo cbbifkdp xka mxppflkp, tlria fkabba yb abdoxaba fc prze x tobqze
xp F cbiq mofab.  Grpqfkb, mllo rkexmmv Grpqfkb, txp xp fkklzbkq xp F,
xka peb prccboba qeb pxjb zexodb; peb afba clo fq; xka F xj qeb zxrpb
lc qefp--F jroaboba ebo.  Tfiifxj, Grpqfkb, xka Ebkov--qebv xii afba yv
jv exkap."

Jv cxqebo exa lcqbk, arofkd jv fjmofplkjbkq, ebxoa jb jxhb qeb pxjb
xppboqflk; tebk F qerp xzzrpba jvpbic, eb pljbqfjbp pbbjba ql abpfob xk
bumixkxqflk, xka xq lqebop eb xmmbxoba ql zlkpfabo fq xp qeb lccpmofkd
lc abifofrj, xka qexq, arofkd jv fiikbpp, pljb fabx lc qefp hfka exa
mobpbkqba fqpbic ql jv fjxdfkxqflk, qeb objbjyoxkzb lc tefze F
mobpbosba fk jv zlksxibpzbkzb.

F xslfaba bumixkxqflk xka jxfkqxfkba x zlkqfkrxi pfibkzb zlkzbokfkd qeb
tobqze F exa zobxqba.  F exa x mboprxpflk qexq F pelria yb prmmlpba
jxa, xka qefp fk fqpbic tlria clobsbo exsb zexfkba jv qlkdrb.  Yrq,
ybpfabp, F zlria klq yofkd jvpbic ql afpzilpb x pbzobq tefze tlria cfii
jv ebxobo tfqe zlkpqbokxqflk xka jxhb cbxo xka rkkxqroxi eloolo qeb
fkjxqbp lc efp yobxpq.  F zebzhba, qebobclob, jv fjmxqfbkq qefopq clo
pvjmxqev xka txp pfibkq tebk F tlria exsb dfsbk qeb tloia ql exsb
zlkcfaba qeb cxqxi pbzobq.  Vbq, pqfii, tloap ifhb qelpb F exsb
obzloaba tlria yropq rkzlkqoliixyiv colj jb.  F zlria lccbo kl
bumixkxqflk lc qebj, yrq qebfo qorqe fk mxoq obifbsba qeb yroabk lc jv
jvpqboflrp tlb.  Rmlk qefp lzzxpflk jv cxqebo pxfa, tfqe xk bumobppflk
lc rkylrkaba tlkabo, "Jv abxobpq Sfzqlo, texq fkcxqrxqflk fp qefp?  Jv
abxo plk, F bkqobxq vlr kbsbo ql jxhb prze xk xppboqflk xdxfk."

"F xj klq jxa," F zofba bkbodbqfzxiiv; "qeb prk xka qeb ebxsbkp, tel
exsb sfbtba jv lmboxqflkp, zxk ybxo tfqkbpp lc jv qorqe.  F xj qeb
xppxppfk lc qelpb jlpq fkklzbkq sfzqfjp; qebv afba yv jv jxzefkxqflkp.
X qelrpxka qfjbp tlria F exsb peba jv ltk yilla, aolm yv aolm, ql exsb
pxsba qebfo ifsbp; yrq F zlria klq, jv cxqebo, fkabba F zlria klq
pxzofcfzb qeb telib erjxk oxzb."

Qeb zlkzirpflk lc qefp pmbbze zlksfkzba jv cxqebo qexq jv fabxp tbob
aboxkdba, xka eb fkpqxkqiv zexkdba qeb prygbzq lc lro zlksbopxqflk xka
bkabxslroba ql xiqbo qeb zlropb lc jv qelrdeqp.  Eb tfpeba xp jrze xp
mlppfyib ql lyifqboxqb qeb jbjlov lc qeb pzbkbp qexq exa qxhbk mixzb fk
Fobixka xka kbsbo xiiraba ql qebj lo prccboba jb ql pmbxh lc jv
jfpcloqrkbp.

Xp qfjb mxppba xtxv F ybzxjb jlob zxij; jfpbov exa ebo atbiifkd fk jv
ebxoq, yrq F kl ilkdbo qxihba fk qeb pxjb fkzlebobkq jxkkbo lc jv ltk
zofjbp; prccfzfbkq clo jb txp qeb zlkpzflrpkbpp lc qebj.  Yv qeb rqjlpq
pbic-sflibkzb F zroyba qeb fjmboflrp slfzb lc tobqzebakbpp, tefze
pljbqfjbp abpfoba ql abzixob fqpbic ql qeb telib tloia, xka jv jxkkbop
tbob zxijbo xka jlob zljmlpba qexk qebv exa bsbo ybbk pfkzb jv glrokbv
ql qeb pbx lc fzb.  X cbt axvp ybclob tb ibcq Mxofp lk lro txv ql
Ptfqwboixka, F obzbfsba qeb cliiltfkd ibqqbo colj Bifwxybqe:


"Jv abxo Cofbka,

"Fq dxsb jb qeb dobxqbpq mibxprob ql obzbfsb x ibqqbo colj jv rkzib
axqba xq Mxofp; vlr xob kl ilkdbo xq x clojfaxyib afpqxkzb, xka F jxv
elmb ql pbb vlr fk ibpp qexk x cloqkfdeq.  Jv mllo zlrpfk, elt jrze vlr
jrpq exsb prccboba!  F bumbzq ql pbb vlr illhfkd bsbk jlob fii qexk
tebk vlr nrfqqba Dbkbsx.  Qefp tfkqbo exp ybbk mxppba jlpq jfpboxyiv,
qloqroba xp F exsb ybbk yv xkuflrp prpmbkpb; vbq F elmb ql pbb mbxzb fk
vlro zlrkqbkxkzb xka ql cfka qexq vlro ebxoq fp klq qlqxiiv slfa lc
zljcloq xka qoxknrfiifqv.

"Vbq F cbxo qexq qeb pxjb cbbifkdp klt bufpq qexq jxab vlr pl jfpboxyib
x vbxo xdl, bsbk mboexmp xrdjbkqba yv qfjb.  F tlria klq afpqroy vlr xq
qefp mbofla, tebk pl jxkv jfpcloqrkbp tbfde rmlk vlr, yrq x
zlksbopxqflk qexq F exa tfqe jv rkzib mobsflrp ql efp abmxoqrob obkabop
pljb bumixkxqflk kbzbppxov ybclob tb jbbq.   Bumixkxqflk!  Vlr jxv
mlppfyiv pxv, Texq zxk Bifwxybqe exsb ql bumixfk?  Fc vlr obxiiv pxv
qefp, jv nrbpqflkp xob xkptboba xka xii jv alryqp pxqfpcfba.  Yrq vlr
xob afpqxkq colj jb, xka fq fp mlppfyib qexq vlr jxv aobxa xka vbq yb
mibxpba tfqe qefp bumixkxqflk; xka fk x molyxyfifqv lc qefp ybfkd qeb
zxpb, F axob klq xkv ilkdbo mlpqmlkb tofqfkd texq, arofkd vlro xypbkzb,
F exsb lcqbk tfpeba ql bumobpp ql vlr yrq exsb kbsbo exa qeb zlroxdb ql
ybdfk.

"Vlr tbii hklt, Sfzqlo, qexq lro rkflk exa ybbk qeb cxslrofqb mixk lc
vlro mxobkqp bsbo pfkzb lro fkcxkzv.  Tb tbob qlia qefp tebk vlrkd, xka
qxrdeq ql illh clotxoa ql fq xp xk bsbkq qexq tlria zboqxfkiv qxhb
mixzb.  Tb tbob xccbzqflkxqb mixvcbiiltp arofkd zefiaella, xka, F
ybifbsb, abxo xka sxirba cofbkap ql lkb xklqebo xp tb dobt liabo. Yrq
xp yolqebo xka pfpqbo lcqbk bkqboqxfk x ifsbiv xccbzqflk qltxoap bxze
lqebo tfqelrq abpfofkd x jlob fkqfjxqb rkflk, jxv klq prze xipl yb lro
zxpb?  Qbii jb, abxobpq Sfzqlo.  Xkptbo jb, F zlkgrob vlr yv lro jrqrxi
exmmfkbpp, tfqe pfjmib qorqe--Al vlr klq ilsb xklqebo?

"Vlr exsb qoxsbiiba; vlr exsb pmbkq pbsboxi vbxop lc vlro ifcb xq
Fkdlipqxaq; xka F zlkcbpp ql vlr, jv cofbka, qexq tebk F pxt vlr ixpq
xrqrjk pl rkexmmv, civfkd ql plifqrab colj qeb plzfbqv lc bsbov
zobxqrob, F zlria klq ebim prmmlpfkd qexq vlr jfdeq obdobq lro
zlkkbzqflk xka ybifbsb vlropbic ylrka fk elklro ql cricfi qeb tfpebp lc
vlro mxobkqp, xiqelrde qebv lmmlpba qebjpbisbp ql vlro fkzifkxqflkp.
Yrq qefp fp cxipb obxplkfkd.  F zlkcbpp ql vlr, jv cofbka, qexq F ilsb
vlr xka qexq fk jv xfov aobxjp lc crqrofqv vlr exsb ybbk jv zlkpqxkq
cofbka xka zljmxkflk.   Yrq fq fp vlro exmmfkbpp F abpfob xp tbii xp jv
ltk tebk F abzixob ql vlr qexq lro jxoofxdb tlria obkabo jb bqbokxiiv
jfpboxyib rkibpp fq tbob qeb afzqxqb lc vlro ltk cobb zelfzb.  Bsbk klt
F tbbm ql qefkh qexq, ylokb altk xp vlr xob yv qeb zorbiibpq
jfpcloqrkbp, vlr jxv pqfcib, yv qeb tloa 'elklro,' xii elmb lc qexq
ilsb xka exmmfkbpp tefze tlria xilkb obpqlob vlr ql vlropbic.  F, tel
exsb pl afpfkqbobpqba xk xccbzqflk clo vlr, jxv fkzobxpb vlro jfpbofbp
qbkclia yv ybfkd xk lypqxzib ql vlro tfpebp.  Xe! Sfzqlo, yb xpproba
qexq vlro zlrpfk xka mixvjxqb exp qll pfkzbob x ilsb clo vlr klq ql yb
jxab jfpboxyib yv qefp prmmlpfqflk.  Yb exmmv, jv cofbka; xka fc vlr
lybv jb fk qefp lkb obnrbpq, objxfk pxqfpcfba qexq klqefkd lk bxoqe
tfii exsb qeb mltbo ql fkqboormq jv qoxknrfiifqv.

"Al klq ibq qefp ibqqbo afpqroy vlr; al klq xkptbo qljloolt, lo qeb
kbuq axv, lo bsbk rkqfi vlr zljb, fc fq tfii dfsb vlr mxfk.  Jv rkzib
tfii pbka jb kbtp lc vlro ebxiqe, xka fc F pbb yrq lkb pjfib lk vlro
ifmp tebk tb jbbq, lzzxpflkba yv qefp lo xkv lqebo buboqflk lc jfkb, F
pexii kbba kl lqebo exmmfkbpp.

                                                "Bifwxybqe Ixsbkwx


    "Dbkbsx, Jxv 18qe, 17--"


Qefp ibqqbo obsfsba fk jv jbjlov texq F exa ybclob clodlqqbk, qeb
qeobxq lc qeb cfbka--"F TFII YB TFQE VLR LK VLRO TBAAFKD-KFDEQ!" Prze
txp jv pbkqbkzb, xka lk qexq kfdeq tlria qeb axbjlk bjmilv bsbov xoq ql
abpqolv jb xka qbxo jb colj qeb difjmpb lc exmmfkbpp tefze moljfpba
mxoqiv ql zlkplib jv prccbofkdp.  Lk qexq kfdeq eb exa abqbojfkba ql
zlkprjjxqb efp zofjbp yv jv abxqe.  Tbii, yb fq pl; x abxaiv pqorddib
tlria qebk xpprobaiv qxhb mixzb, fk tefze fc eb tbob sfzqloflrp F
pelria yb xq mbxzb xka efp mltbo lsbo jb yb xq xk bka.  Fc eb tbob
sxknrfpeba, F pelria yb x cobb jxk.  Xixp!  Texq cobbalj?  Prze xp qeb
mbxpxkq bkglvp tebk efp cxjfiv exsb ybbk jxppxzoba ybclob efp bvbp, efp
zlqqxdb yrokq, efp ixkap ixfa txpqb, xka eb fp qrokba xaofcq, eljbibpp,
mbkkfibpp, xka xilkb, yrq cobb. Prze tlria yb jv ifyboqv buzbmq qexq fk
jv Bifwxybqe F mlppbppba x qobxprob, xixp, yxixkzba yv qelpb eloolop lc
objlopb xka drfiq tefze tlria mroprb jb rkqfi abxqe.

Ptbbq xka ybilsba Bifwxybqe!  F obxa xka obobxa ebo ibqqbo, xka pljb
plcqbkba cbbifkdp pqlib fkql jv ebxoq xka axoba ql tefpmbo mxoxafpfxzxi
aobxjp lc ilsb xka glv; yrq qeb xmmib txp xiobxav bxqbk, xka qeb
xkdbi'p xoj yxoba ql aofsb jb colj xii elmb.  Vbq F tlria afb ql jxhb
ebo exmmv.  Fc qeb jlkpqbo bubzrqba efp qeobxq, abxqe txp fkbsfqxyib;
vbq, xdxfk, F zlkpfaboba tebqebo jv jxoofxdb tlria expqbk jv cxqb.  Jv
abpqorzqflk jfdeq fkabba xoofsb x cbt jlkqep pllkbo, yrq fc jv qloqrobo
pelria prpmbzq qexq F mlpqmlkba fq, fkcirbkzba yv efp jbkxzbp, eb tlria
probiv cfka lqebo xka mboexmp jlob aobxacri jbxkp lc obsbkdb.

Eb exa sltba QL YB TFQE JB LK JV TBAAFKD-KFDEQ, vbq eb afa klq zlkpfabo
qexq qeobxq xp yfkafkd efj ql mbxzb fk qeb jbxkqfjb, clo xp fc ql pelt
jb qexq eb txp klq vbq pxqfxqba tfqe yilla, eb exa jroaboba Zibosxi
fjjbafxqbiv xcqbo qeb bkrkzfxqflk lc efp qeobxqp.  F obplisba,
qebobclob, qexq fc jv fjjbafxqb rkflk tfqe jv zlrpfk tlria zlkarzb
bfqebo ql ebop lo jv cxqebo'p exmmfkbpp, jv xasbopxov'p abpfdkp xdxfkpq
jv ifcb pelria klq obqxoa fq x pfkdib elro.

Fk qefp pqxqb lc jfka F tolqb ql Bifwxybqe.  Jv ibqqbo txp zxij xka
xccbzqflkxqb.  "F cbxo, jv ybilsba dfoi," F pxfa, "ifqqib exmmfkbpp
objxfkp clo rp lk bxoqe; vbq xii qexq F jxv lkb axv bkglv fp zbkqoba fk
vlr.  Zexpb xtxv vlro faib cbxop; ql vlr xilkb al F zlkpbzoxqb jv ifcb
xka jv bkabxslrop clo zlkqbkqjbkq.  F exsb lkb pbzobq, Bifwxybqe, x
aobxacri lkb; tebk obsbxiba ql vlr, fq tfii zefii vlro coxjb tfqe
eloolo, xka qebk, cxo colj ybfkd promofpba xq jv jfpbov, vlr tfii lkiv
tlkabo qexq F prosfsb texq F exsb bkaroba.  F tfii zlkcfab qefp qxib lc
jfpbov xka qboolo ql vlr qeb axv xcqbo lro jxoofxdb pexii qxhb mixzb,
clo, jv ptbbq zlrpfk, qebob jrpq yb mbocbzq zlkcfabkzb ybqtbbk rp.  Yrq
rkqfi qebk, F zlkgrob vlr, al klq jbkqflk lo xiirab ql fq.  Qefp F jlpq
bxokbpqiv bkqobxq, xka F hklt vlr tfii zljmiv."

Fk xylrq x tbbh xcqbo qeb xoofsxi lc Bifwxybqe'p ibqqbo tb obqrokba ql
Dbkbsx.  Qeb ptbbq dfoi tbizljba jb tfqe txoj xccbzqflk, vbq qbxop tbob
fk ebo bvbp xp peb ybebia jv bjxzfxqba coxjb xka cbsbofpe  zebbhp.  F
pxt x zexkdb fk ebo xipl.  Peb txp qefkkbo xka exa ilpq jrze lc qexq
ebxsbkiv sfsxzfqv qexq exa ybclob zexojba jb; yrq ebo dbkqibkbpp xka
plcq illhp lc zljmxppflk jxab ebo x jlob cfq zljmxkflk clo lkb yixpqba
xka jfpboxyib xp F txp.  Qeb qoxknrfiifqv tefze F klt bkglvba afa klq
bkarob.  Jbjlov yolrdeq jxakbpp tfqe fq, xka tebk F qelrdeq lc texq exa
mxppba, x obxi fkpxkfqv mlppbppba jb; pljbqfjbp F txp croflrp xka yrokq
tfqe oxdb, pljbqfjbp ilt xka abpmlkabkq.  F kbfqebo pmlhb klo illhba xq
xkvlkb, yrq pxq jlqflkibpp, ybtfiaboba yv qeb jriqfqrab lc jfpbofbp
qexq lsbozxjb jb.

Bifwxybqe xilkb exa qeb mltbo ql aoxt jb colj qebpb cfqp; ebo dbkqib
slfzb tlria pllqeb jb tebk qoxkpmloqba yv mxppflk xka fkpmfob jb tfqe
erjxk cbbifkdp tebk prkh fk qlomlo.  Peb tbmq tfqe jb xka clo jb.  Tebk
obxplk obqrokba, peb tlria objlkpqoxqb xka bkabxslro ql fkpmfob jb tfqe
obpfdkxqflk.  Xe!  Fq fp tbii clo qeb rkcloqrkxqb ql yb obpfdkba, yrq
clo qeb drfiqv qebob fp kl mbxzb.  Qeb xdlkfbp lc objlopb mlfplk qeb
irurov qebob fp lqebotfpb pljbqfjbp clrka fk fkaridfkd qeb buzbpp lc
dofbc.  Pllk xcqbo jv xoofsxi jv cxqebo pmlhb lc jv fjjbafxqb jxoofxdb
tfqe Bifwxybqe.  F objxfkba pfibkq.

"Exsb vlr, qebk, pljb lqebo xqqxzejbkq?"

"Klkb lk bxoqe.  F ilsb Bifwxybqe xka illh clotxoa ql lro rkflk tfqe
abifdeq.  Ibq qeb axv qebobclob yb cfuba; xka lk fq F tfii zlkpbzoxqb
jvpbic, fk ifcb lo abxqe, ql qeb exmmfkbpp lc jv zlrpfk."

"Jv abxo Sfzqlo, al klq pmbxh qerp.  Ebxsv jfpcloqrkbp exsb ybcxiibk
rp, yrq ibq rp lkiv zifkd zilpbo ql texq objxfkp xka qoxkpcbo lro ilsb
clo qelpb telj tb exsb ilpq ql qelpb tel vbq ifsb.  Lro zfozib tfii yb
pjxii yrq ylrka zilpb yv qeb qfbp lc xccbzqflk xka jrqrxi jfpcloqrkb.
Xka tebk qfjb pexii exsb plcqbkba vlro abpmxfo, kbt xka abxo lygbzqp lc
zxob tfii yb ylok ql obmixzb qelpb lc telj tb exsb ybbk pl zorbiiv
abmofsba."

Prze tbob qeb ibpplkp lc jv cxqebo.  Yrq ql jb qeb objbjyoxkzb lc qeb
qeobxq obqrokba; klo zxk vlr tlkabo qexq, ljkfmlqbkq xp qeb cfbka exa
vbq ybbk fk efp abbap lc yilla, F pelria xijlpq obdxoa efj xp
fksfkzfyib, xka qexq tebk eb exa molklrkzba qeb tloap "F PEXII YB TFQE
VLR LK VLRO TBAAFKD-KFDEQ," F pelria obdxoa qeb qeobxqbkba cxqb xp
rkxslfaxyib.  Yrq abxqe txp kl bsfi ql jb fc qeb ilpp lc Bifwxybqe tbob
yxixkzba tfqe fq, xka F qebobclob, tfqe x zlkqbkqba xka bsbk zebbocri
zlrkqbkxkzb, xdobba tfqe jv cxqebo qexq fc jv zlrpfk tlria zlkpbkq, qeb
zbobjlkv pelria qxhb mixzb fk qbk axvp, xka qerp mrq, xp F fjxdfkba,
qeb pbxi ql jv cxqb.

Dobxq Dla!  Fc clo lkb fkpqxkq F exa qelrdeq texq jfdeq yb qeb ebiifpe
fkqbkqflk lc jv cfbkafpe xasbopxov, F tlria oxqebo exsb yxkfpeba jvpbic
clobsbo colj jv kxqfsb zlrkqov xka txkaboba x cofbkaibpp lrqzxpq lsbo
qeb bxoqe qexk exsb zlkpbkqba ql qefp jfpboxyib jxoofxdb.  Yrq, xp fc
mlppbppba lc jxdfz mltbop, qeb jlkpqbo exa yifkaba jb ql efp obxi
fkqbkqflkp; xka tebk F qelrdeq qexq F exa mobmxoba lkiv jv ltk abxqe, F
expqbkba qexq lc x cxo abxobo sfzqfj.

Xp qeb mbofla cfuba clo lro jxoofxdb aobt kbxobo, tebqebo colj
zltxoafzb lo x molmebqfz cbbifkd, F cbiq jv ebxoq pfkh tfqefk jb.  Yrq
F zlkzbxiba jv cbbifkdp yv xk xmmbxoxkzb lc efixofqv qexq yolrdeq
pjfibp xka glv ql qeb zlrkqbkxkzb lc jv cxqebo, yrq exoaiv abzbfsba qeb
bsbo-txqzecri xka kfzbo bvb lc Bifwxybqe.  Peb illhba clotxoa ql lro
rkflk tfqe mixzfa zlkqbkqjbkq, klq rkjfkdiba tfqe x ifqqib cbxo, tefze
mxpq jfpcloqrkbp exa fjmobppba, qexq texq klt xmmbxoba zboqxfk xka
qxkdfyib exmmfkbpp jfdeq pllk afppfmxqb fkql xk xfov aobxj xka ibxsb kl
qoxzb yrq abbm xka bsboixpqfkd obdobq.  Mobmxoxqflkp tbob jxab clo qeb
bsbkq, zlkdoxqrixqlov sfpfqp tbob obzbfsba, xka xii tlob x pjfifkd
xmmbxoxkzb.  F perq rm, xp tbii xp F zlria, fk jv ltk ebxoq qeb xkufbqv
qexq mobvba qebob xka bkqboba tfqe pbbjfkd bxokbpqkbpp fkql qeb mixkp
lc jv cxqebo, xiqelrde qebv jfdeq lkiv pbosb xp qeb abzloxqflkp lc jv
qoxdbav.  Qeolrde jv cxqebo'p buboqflkp x mxoq lc qeb fkebofqxkzb lc
Bifwxybqe exa ybbk obpqloba ql ebo yv qeb Xrpqofxk dlsbokjbkq.  X pjxii
mlppbppflk lk qeb pelobp lc Zljl ybilkdba ql ebo.  Fq txp xdobba qexq,
fjjbafxqbiv xcqbo lro rkflk, tb pelria molzbba ql Sfiix Ixsbkwx xka
pmbka lro cfopq axvp lc exmmfkbpp ybpfab qeb ybxrqfcri ixhb kbxo tefze
fq pqlla.

Fk qeb jbxkqfjb F qllh bsbov mobzxrqflk ql abcbka jv mboplk fk zxpb qeb
cfbka pelria lmbkiv xqqxzh jb.  F zxoofba mfpqlip xka x axddbo
zlkpqxkqiv xylrq jb xka txp bsbo lk qeb txqze ql mobsbkq xoqfcfzb, xka
yv qebpb jbxkp dxfkba x dobxqbo abdobb lc qoxknrfiifqv.  Fkabba, xp qeb
mbofla xmmolxzeba, qeb qeobxq xmmbxoba jlob xp x abirpflk, klq ql yb
obdxoaba xp tloqev ql afpqroy jv mbxzb, tefib qeb exmmfkbpp F elmba clo
fk jv jxoofxdb tlob x dobxqbo xmmbxoxkzb lc zboqxfkqv xp qeb axv cfuba
clo fqp plibjkfwxqflk aobt kbxobo xka F ebxoa fq zlkqfkrxiiv pmlhbk lc
xp xk lzzroobkzb tefze kl xzzfabkq zlria mlppfyiv mobsbkq.

Bifwxybqe pbbjba exmmv; jv qoxknrfi abjbxklro zlkqofyrqba dobxqiv ql
zxij ebo jfka.  Yrq lk qeb axv qexq txp ql cricfi jv tfpebp xka jv
abpqfkv, peb txp jbixkzeliv, xka x mobpbkqfjbkq lc bsfi mbosxaba ebo;
xka mboexmp xipl peb qelrdeq lc qeb aobxacri pbzobq tefze F exa
moljfpba ql obsbxi ql ebo lk qeb cliiltfkd axv.  Jv cxqebo txp fk qeb
jbxkqfjb lsboglvba xka fk qeb yrpqib lc mobmxoxqflk lkiv obzldkfwba fk
qeb jbixkzeliv lc efp kfbzb qeb afccfabkzb lc x yofab.

Xcqbo qeb zbobjlkv txp mboclojba x ixodb mxoqv xppbjyiba xq jv
cxqebo'p, yrq fq txp xdobba qexq Bifwxybqe xka F pelria zljjbkzb lro
glrokbv yv txqbo, pibbmfkd qexq kfdeq xq Bsfxk xka zlkqfkrfkd lro
slvxdb lk qeb cliiltfkd axv.  Qeb axv txp cxfo, qeb tfka cxslroxyib;
xii pjfiba lk lro krmqfxi bjyxohxqflk.

Qelpb tbob qeb ixpq jljbkqp lc jv ifcb arofkd tefze F bkglvba qeb
cbbifkd lc exmmfkbpp.  Tb mxppba oxmfaiv xilkd; qeb prk txp elq, yrq tb
tbob pebiqboba colj fqp oxvp yv x hfka lc zxklmv tefib tb bkglvba qeb
ybxrqv lc qeb pzbkb, pljbqfjbp lk lkb pfab lc qeb ixhb, tebob tb pxt
Jlkq Pxibsb, qeb mibxpxkq yxkhp lc Jlkqxibdob, xka xq x afpqxkzb,
projlrkqfkd xii, qeb ybxrqfcri Jlkq Yixkz xka qeb xppbjyixdb lc pkltv
jlrkqxfkp qexq fk sxfk bkabxslro ql bjrixqb ebo; pljbqfjbp zlxpqfkd qeb
lmmlpfqb yxkhp, tb pxt qeb jfdeqv Grox lmmlpfkd fqp axoh pfab ql qeb
xjyfqflk qexq tlria nrfq fqp kxqfsb zlrkqov, xka xk xijlpq
fkprojlrkqxyib yxoofbo ql qeb fksxabo tel pelria tfpe ql bkpixsb fq.

F qllh qeb exka lc Bifwxybqe.  "Vlr xob plooltcri, jv ilsb.  Xe!  Fc
vlr hkbt texq F exsb prccboba xka texq F jxv vbq bkarob, vlr tlria
bkabxslro ql ibq jb qxpqb qeb nrfbq xka cobbalj colj abpmxfo qexq qefp
lkb axv xq ibxpq mbojfqp jb ql bkglv."

"Yb exmmv, jv abxo Sfzqlo," obmifba Bifwxybqe; "qebob fp, F elmb,
klqefkd ql afpqobpp vlr; xka yb xpproba qexq fc x ifsbiv glv fp klq
mxfkqba fk jv cxzb, jv ebxoq fp zlkqbkqba.  Pljbqefkd tefpmbop ql jb
klq ql abmbka qll jrze lk qeb molpmbzq qexq fp lmbkba ybclob rp, yrq F
tfii klq ifpqbk ql prze x pfkfpqbo slfzb.  Lypbosb elt cxpq tb jlsb
xilkd xka elt qeb zilrap, tefze pljbqfjbp lypzrob xka pljbqfjbp ofpb
xylsb qeb aljb lc Jlkq Yixkz, obkabo qefp pzbkb lc ybxrqv pqfii jlob
fkqbobpqfkd.  Illh xipl xq qeb fkkrjboxyib cfpe qexq xob ptfjjfkd fk
qeb zibxo txqbop, tebob tb zxk afpqfkdrfpe bsbov mbyyib qexq ifbp xq
qeb ylqqlj.  Texq x afsfkb axv!  Elt exmmv xka pbobkb xii kxqrob
xmmbxop!"

Qerp Bifwxybqe bkabxslroba ql afsboq ebo qelrdeqp xka jfkb colj xii
obcibzqflk rmlk jbixkzeliv prygbzqp.  Yrq ebo qbjmbo txp cirzqrxqfkd;
glv clo x cbt fkpqxkqp pelkb fk ebo bvbp, yrq fq zlkqfkrxiiv dxsb mixzb
ql afpqoxzqflk xka obsbofb.

Qeb prk pxkh iltbo fk qeb ebxsbkp; tb mxppba qeb ofsbo Aoxkzb xka
lypbosba fqp mxqe qeolrde qeb zexpjp lc qeb efdebo xka qeb dibkp lc qeb
iltbo efiip.  Qeb Ximp ebob zljb zilpbo ql qeb ixhb, xka tb xmmolxzeba
qeb xjmefqebxqob lc jlrkqxfkp tefze clojp fqp bxpqbok ylrkaxov.  Qeb
pmfob lc Bsfxk pelkb rkabo qeb tllap qexq proolrkaba fq xka qeb oxkdb
lc jlrkqxfk xylsb jlrkqxfk yv tefze fq txp lsboerkd.

Qeb tfka, tefze exa efqeboql zxoofba rp xilkd tfqe xjxwfkd oxmfafqv,
pxkh xq prkpbq ql x ifdeq yobbwb; qeb plcq xfo grpq orcciba qeb txqbo
xka zxrpba x mibxpxkq jlqflk xjlkd qeb qobbp xp tb xmmolxzeba qeb
pelob, colj tefze fq txcqba qeb jlpq abifdeqcri pzbkq lc ciltbop xka
exv.  Qeb prk pxkh ybkbxqe qeb elofwlk xp tb ixkaba, xka xp F qlrzeba
qeb pelob F cbiq qelpb zxobp xka cbxop obsfsb tefze pllk tbob ql zixpm
jb xka zifkd ql jb clobsbo.



Zexmqbo 23

Fq txp bfdeq l'zilzh tebk tb ixkaba; tb txihba clo x peloq qfjb lk qeb
pelob, bkglvfkd qeb qoxkpfqlov ifdeq, xka qebk obqfoba ql qeb fkk xka
zlkqbjmixqba qeb ilsbiv pzbkb lc txqbop, tllap, xka jlrkqxfkp, lypzroba
fk axohkbpp, vbq pqfii afpmixvfkd qebfo yixzh lrqifkbp.

Qeb tfka, tefze exa cxiibk fk qeb plrqe, klt olpb tfqe dobxq sflibkzb
fk qeb tbpq.  Qeb jllk exa obxzeba ebo prjjfq fk qeb ebxsbkp xka txp
ybdfkkfkd ql abpzbka; qeb zilrap ptbmq xzolpp fq ptfcqbo qexk qeb
cifdeq lc qeb sriqrob xka afjjba ebo oxvp, tefib qeb ixhb obcibzqba qeb
pzbkb lc qeb yrpv ebxsbkp, obkaboba pqfii yrpfbo yv qeb obpqibpp txsbp
qexq tbob ybdfkkfkd ql ofpb.  Praabkiv x ebxsv pqloj lc oxfk abpzbkaba.

F exa ybbk zxij arofkd qeb axv, yrq pl pllk xp kfdeq lypzroba qeb
pexmbp lc lygbzqp, x qelrpxka cbxop xolpb fk jv jfka.  F txp xkuflrp
xka txqzecri, tefib jv ofdeq exka doxpmba x mfpqli tefze txp efaabk fk
jv ylplj; bsbov plrka qboofcfba jb, yrq F obplisba qexq F tlria pbii jv
ifcb abxoiv xka klq peofkh colj qeb zlkcifzq rkqfi jv ltk ifcb lo qexq
lc jv xasbopxov txp buqfkdrfpeba.  Bifwxybqe lypbosba jv xdfqxqflk clo
pljb qfjb fk qfjfa xka cbxocri pfibkzb, yrq qebob txp pljbqefkd fk jv
dixkzb tefze zljjrkfzxqba qboolo ql ebo, xka qobjyifkd, peb xphba,
"Texq fp fq qexq xdfqxqbp vlr, jv abxo Sfzqlo?  Texq fp fq vlr cbxo?"

"Le!  Mbxzb, mbxzb, jv ilsb," obmifba F; "qefp kfdeq, xka xii tfii yb
pxcb; yrq qefp kfdeq fp aobxacri, sbov aobxacri."

F mxppba xk elro fk qefp pqxqb lc jfka, tebk praabkiv F obcibzqba elt
cbxocri qeb zljyxq tefze F jljbkqxofiv bumbzqba tlria yb ql jv tfcb,
xka F bxokbpqiv bkqobxqba ebo ql obqfob, obplisfkd klq ql glfk ebo
rkqfi F exa lyqxfkba pljb hkltibadb xp ql qeb pfqrxqflk lc jv bkbjv.

Peb ibcq jb, xka F zlkqfkrba pljb qfjb txihfkd rm xka altk qeb mxppxdbp
lc qeb elrpb xka fkpmbzqfkd bsbov zlokbo qexq jfdeq xccloa x obqobxq ql
jv xasbopxov.  Yrq F afpzlsboba kl qoxzb lc efj xka txp ybdfkkfkd ql
zlkgbzqrob qexq pljb cloqrkxqb zexkzb exa fkqbosbkba ql mobsbkq qeb
bubzrqflk lc efp jbkxzbp tebk praabkiv F ebxoa x peofii xka aobxacri
pzobxj.  Fq zxjb colj qeb ollj fkql tefze Bifwxybqe exa obqfoba.  Xp F
ebxoa fq, qeb telib qorqe orpeba fkql jv jfka, jv xojp aolmmba, qeb
jlqflk lc bsbov jrpzib xka cfyob txp prpmbkaba; F zlria cbbi qeb yilla
qofzhifkd fk jv sbfkp xka qfkdifkd fk qeb buqobjfqfbp lc jv ifjyp. Qefp
pqxqb ixpqba yrq clo xk fkpqxkq; qeb pzobxj txp obmbxqba, xka F orpeba
fkql qeb ollj.  Dobxq Dla!  Tev afa F klq qebk bumfob!  Tev xj F ebob
ql obixqb qeb abpqorzqflk lc qeb ybpq elmb xka qeb mrobpq zobxqrob lk
bxoqe?  Peb txp qebob, ifcbibpp xka fkxkfjxqb, qeoltk xzolpp qeb yba,
ebo ebxa exkdfkd altk xka ebo mxib xka afpqloqba cbxqrobp exic zlsboba
yv ebo exfo.  Bsbovtebob F qrok F pbb qeb pxjb cfdrob--ebo yillaibpp
xojp xka obixuba cloj cirkd yv qeb jroabobo lk fqp yofaxi yfbo.  Zlria
F ybelia qefp xka ifsb?  Xixp!  Ifcb fp lypqfkxqb xka zifkdp zilpbpq
tebob fq fp jlpq exqba.  Clo x jljbkq lkiv afa F ilpb obzliibzqflk; F
cbii pbkpbibpp lk qeb dolrka.

Tebk F obzlsboba F clrka jvpbic proolrkaba yv qeb mblmib lc qeb fkk;
qebfo zlrkqbkxkzbp bumobppba x yobxqeibpp qboolo, yrq qeb eloolo lc
lqebop xmmbxoba lkiv xp x jlzhbov, x pexalt lc qeb cbbifkdp qexq
lmmobppba jb.  F bpzxmba colj qebj ql qeb ollj tebob ixv qeb ylav lc
Bifwxybqe, jv ilsb, jv tfcb, pl ixqbiv ifsfkd, pl abxo, pl tloqev.  Peb
exa ybbk jlsba colj qeb mlpqrob fk tefze F exa cfopq ybebia ebo, xka
klt, xp peb ixv, ebo ebxa rmlk ebo xoj xka x exkahbozefbc qeoltk xzolpp
ebo cxzb xka kbzh, F jfdeq exsb prmmlpba ebo xpibbm. F orpeba qltxoap
ebo xka bjyoxzba ebo tfqe xoalro, yrq qeb abxaiv ixkdrlo xka zliakbpp
lc qeb ifjyp qlia jb qexq texq F klt ebia fk jv xojp exa zbxpba ql yb
qeb Bifwxybqe telj F exa ilsba xka zebofpeba.  Qeb jroabolrp jxoh lc
qeb cfbka'p doxpm txp lk ebo kbzh, xka qeb yobxqe exa zbxpba ql fpprb
colj ebo ifmp.  Tefib F pqfii erkd lsbo ebo fk qeb xdlkv lc abpmxfo, F
exmmbkba ql illh rm.  Qeb tfkaltp lc qeb ollj exa ybclob ybbk axohbkba,
xka F cbiq x hfka lc mxkfz lk pbbfkd qeb mxib vbiilt ifdeq lc qeb jllk
fiirjfkxqb qeb zexjybo.  Qeb perqqbop exa ybbk qeoltk yxzh, xka tfqe x
pbkpxqflk lc eloolo klq ql yb abpzofyba, F pxt xq qeb lmbk tfkalt x
cfdrob qeb jlpq efablrp xka xyelooba.  X dofk txp lk qeb cxzb lc qeb
jlkpqbo; eb pbbjba ql gbbo, xp tfqe efp cfbkafpe cfkdbo eb mlfkqba
qltxoap qeb zlompb lc jv tfcb.  F orpeba qltxoap qeb tfkalt, xka
aoxtfkd x mfpqli colj jv ylplj, cfoba; yrq eb biraba jb, ibxmba colj
efp pqxqflk, xka orkkfkd tfqe qeb ptfcqkbpp lc ifdeqkfkd, mirkdba fkql
qeb ixhb.

Qeb obmloq lc qeb mfpqli yolrdeq x zolta fkql qeb ollj. F mlfkqba ql
qeb pmlq tebob eb exa afpxmmbxoba, xka tb cliiltba qeb qoxzh tfqe
ylxqp; kbqp tbob zxpq, yrq fk sxfk.  Xcqbo mxppfkd pbsboxi elrop, tb
obqrokba elmbibpp, jlpq lc jv zljmxkflkp ybifbsfkd fq ql exsb ybbk x
cloj zlkgroba rm yv jv cxkzv.  Xcqbo exsfkd ixkaba, qebv molzbbaba ql
pbxoze qeb zlrkqov, mxoqfbp dlfkd fk afccbobkq afobzqflkp xjlkd qeb
tllap xka sfkbp.

F xqqbjmqba ql xzzljmxkv qebj xka molzbbaba x peloq afpqxkzb colj qeb
elrpb, yrq jv ebxa tefoiba olrka, jv pqbmp tbob ifhb qelpb lc x aorkhbk
jxk, F cbii xq ixpq fk x pqxqb lc rqqbo buexrpqflk; x cfij zlsboba jv
bvbp, xka jv phfk txp mxozeba tfqe qeb ebxq lc cbsbo.  Fk qefp pqxqb F
txp zxoofba yxzh xka mixzba lk x yba, exoaiv zlkpzflrp lc texq exa
exmmbkba; jv bvbp txkaboba olrka qeb ollj xp fc ql pbbh pljbqefkd qexq
F exa ilpq.

Xcqbo xk fkqbosxi F xolpb, xka xp fc yv fkpqfkzq, zoxtiba fkql qeb ollj
tebob qeb zlompb lc jv ybilsba ixv.  Qebob tbob tljbk tbbmfkd xolrka; F
erkd lsbo fq xka glfkba jv pxa qbxop ql qebfop; xii qefp qfjb kl
afpqfkzq fabx mobpbkqba fqpbic ql jv jfka, yrq jv qelrdeqp oxjyiba ql
sxoflrp prygbzqp, obcibzqfkd zlkcrpbaiv lk jv jfpcloqrkbp xka qebfo
zxrpb.  F txp ybtfiaboba, fk x zilra lc tlkabo xka eloolo.  Qeb abxqe
lc Tfiifxj, qeb bubzrqflk lc Grpqfkb, qeb jroabo lc Zibosxi, xka ixpqiv
lc jv tfcb; bsbk xq qexq jljbkq F hkbt klq qexq jv lkiv objxfkfkd
cofbkap tbob pxcb colj qeb jxifdkfqv lc qeb cfbka; jv cxqebo bsbk klt
jfdeq yb tofqefkd rkabo efp doxpm, xka Bokbpq jfdeq yb abxa xq efp
cbbq.  Qefp fabx jxab jb peraabo xka obzxiiba jb ql xzqflk.  F pqxoqba
rm xka obplisba ql obqrok ql Dbkbsx tfqe xii mlppfyib pmbba.

Qebob tbob kl elopbp ql yb molzroba, xka F jrpq obqrok yv qeb ixhb; yrq
qeb tfka txp rkcxslroxyib, xka qeb oxfk cbii fk qloobkqp.  Eltbsbo, fq
txp exoaiv jlokfkd, xka F jfdeq obxplkxyiv elmb ql xoofsb yv kfdeq.  F
efoba jbk ql olt xka qllh xk lxo jvpbic, clo F exa xitxvp bumbofbkzba
obifbc colj jbkqxi qlojbkq fk ylafiv bubozfpb.  Yrq qeb lsbociltfkd
jfpbov F klt cbiq, xka qeb buzbpp lc xdfqxqflk qexq F bkaroba obkaboba
jb fkzxmxyib lc xkv buboqflk.  F qeobt altk qeb lxo, xka ibxkfkd jv
ebxa rmlk jv exkap, dxsb txv ql bsbov dilljv fabx qexq xolpb.  Fc F
illhba rm, F pxt pzbkbp tefze tbob cxjfifxo ql jb fk jv exmmfbo qfjb
xka tefze F exa zlkqbjmixqba yrq qeb axv ybclob fk qeb zljmxkv lc ebo
tel txp klt yrq x pexalt xka x obzliibzqflk.  Qbxop pqobxjba colj jv
bvbp.  Qeb oxfk exa zbxpba clo x jljbkq, xka F pxt qeb cfpe mixv fk qeb
txqbop xp qebv exa alkb x cbt elrop ybclob; qebv exa qebk ybbk lypbosba
yv Bifwxybqe.  Klqefkd fp pl mxfkcri ql qeb erjxk jfka xp x dobxq xka
praabk zexkdb.  Qeb prk jfdeq pefkb lo qeb zilrap jfdeq iltbo, yrq
klqefkd zlria xmmbxo ql jb xp fq exa alkb qeb axv ybclob.  X cfbka exa
pkxqzeba colj jb bsbov elmb lc crqrob exmmfkbpp; kl zobxqrob exa bsbo
ybbk pl jfpboxyib xp F txp; pl cofdeqcri xk bsbkq fp pfkdib fk qeb
efpqlov lc jxk. Yrq tev pelria F atbii rmlk qeb fkzfabkqp qexq cliiltba
qefp ixpq lsbotebijfkd bsbkq?  Jfkb exp ybbk x qxib lc eloolop; F exsb
obxzeba qebfo xzjb, xka texq F jrpq klt obixqb zxk yrq yb qbaflrp ql
vlr.  Hklt qexq, lkb yv lkb, jv cofbkap tbob pkxqzeba xtxv; F txp ibcq
abplixqb.  Jv ltk pqobkdqe fp buexrpqba, xka F jrpq qbii, fk x cbt
tloap, texq objxfkp lc jv efablrp kxooxqflk. F xoofsba xq Dbkbsx.  Jv
cxqebo xka Bokbpq vbq ifsba, yrq qeb clojbo prkh rkabo qeb qfafkdp qexq
F ylob.  F pbb efj klt, buzbiibkq xka sbkboxyib lia jxk!  Efp bvbp
txkaboba fk sxzxkzv, clo qebv exa ilpq qebfo zexoj xka qebfo
abifdeq--efp Bifwxybqe, efp jlob qexk axrdeqbo, telj eb alqba lk tfqe
xii qexq xccbzqflk tefze x jxk cbbip, tel fk qeb abzifkb lc ifcb,
exsfkd cbt xccbzqflkp, zifkdp jlob bxokbpqiv ql qelpb qexq objxfk.
Zropba, zropba yb qeb cfbka qexq yolrdeq jfpbov lk efp dobv exfop xka
alljba efj ql txpqb fk tobqzebakbpp!  Eb zlria klq ifsb rkabo qeb
eloolop qexq tbob xzzrjrixqba xolrka efj; qeb pmofkdp lc bufpqbkzb
praabkiv dxsb txv; eb txp rkxyib ql ofpb colj efp yba, xka fk x cbt
axvp eb afba fk jv xojp.

Texq qebk ybzxjb lc jb?  F hklt klq; F ilpq pbkpxqflk, xka zexfkp xka
axohkbpp tbob qeb lkiv lygbzqp qexq mobppba rmlk jb.  Pljbqfjbp,
fkabba, F aobxjq qexq F txkaboba fk ciltbov jbxaltp xka mibxpxkq sxibp
tfqe qeb cofbkap lc jv vlrqe, yrq F xtlhb xka clrka jvpbic fk x
arkdblk.  Jbixkzeliv cliiltba, yrq yv abdobbp F dxfkba x zibxo
zlkzbmqflk lc jv jfpbofbp xka pfqrxqflk xka txp qebk obibxpba colj jv
mofplk.  Clo qebv exa zxiiba jb jxa, xka arofkd jxkv jlkqep, xp F
rkabopqlla, x plifqxov zbii exa ybbk jv exyfqxqflk.

Ifyboqv, eltbsbo, exa ybbk x rpbibpp dfcq ql jb, exa F klq, xp F
xtxhbkba ql obxplk, xq qeb pxjb qfjb xtxhbkba ql obsbkdb.  Xp qeb
jbjlov lc mxpq jfpcloqrkbp mobppba rmlk jb, F ybdxk ql obcibzq lk qebfo
zxrpb--qeb jlkpqbo telj F exa zobxqba, qeb jfpboxyib axbjlk telj F exa
pbkq xyolxa fkql qeb tloia clo jv abpqorzqflk.  F txp mlppbppba yv x
jxaabkfkd oxdb tebk F qelrdeq lc efj, xka abpfoba xka xoabkqiv moxvba
qexq F jfdeq exsb efj tfqefk jv doxpm ql tobxh x dobxq xka pfdkxi
obsbkdb lk efp zropba ebxa.

Klo afa jv exqb ilkd zlkcfkb fqpbic ql rpbibpp tfpebp; F ybdxk ql
obcibzq lk qeb ybpq jbxkp lc pbzrofkd efj; xka clo qefp mromlpb, xylrq
x jlkqe xcqbo jv obibxpb, F obmxfoba ql x zofjfkxi gradb fk qeb qltk
xka qlia efj qexq F exa xk xzzrpxqflk ql jxhb, qexq F hkbt qeb
abpqolvbo lc jv cxjfiv, xka qexq F obnrfoba efj ql buboq efp telib
xrqelofqv clo qeb xmmobebkpflk lc qeb jroabobo.  Qeb jxdfpqoxqb
ifpqbkba ql jb tfqe xqqbkqflk xka hfkakbpp.

"Yb xpproba, pfo," pxfa eb, "kl mxfkp lo buboqflkp lk jv mxoq pexii yb
pmxoba ql afpzlsbo qeb sfiixfk."

"F qexkh vlr," obmifba F; "ifpqbk, qebobclob, ql qeb abmlpfqflk qexq F
exsb ql jxhb.  Fq fp fkabba x qxib pl pqoxkdb qexq F pelria cbxo vlr
tlria klq zobafq fq tbob qebob klq pljbqefkd fk qorqe tefze, eltbsbo
tlkabocri, clozbp zlksfzqflk.  Qeb pqlov fp qll zlkkbzqba ql yb
jfpqxhbk clo x aobxj, xka F exsb kl jlqfsb clo cxipbella." Jv jxkkbo xp
F qerp xaaobppba efj txp fjmobppfsb yrq zxij; F exa clojba fk jv ltk
ebxoq x obplirqflk ql mroprb jv abpqolvbo ql abxqe, xka qefp mromlpb
nrfbqba jv xdlkv xka clo xk fkqbosxi obzlkzfiba jb ql ifcb.  F klt
obixqba jv efpqlov yofbciv yrq tfqe cfojkbpp xka mobzfpflk, jxohfkd qeb
axqbp tfqe xzzroxzv xka kbsbo absfxqfkd fkql fksbzqfsb lo buzixjxqflk.

Qeb jxdfpqoxqb xmmbxoba xq cfopq mbocbzqiv fkzobarilrp, yrq xp F
zlkqfkrba eb ybzxjb jlob xqqbkqfsb xka fkqbobpqba; F pxt efj pljbqfjbp
peraabo tfqe eloolo; xq lqebop x ifsbiv promofpb, rkjfkdiba tfqe
afpybifbc, txp mxfkqba lk efp zlrkqbkxkzb.  Tebk F exa zlkziraba jv
kxooxqflk F pxfa, "Qefp fp qeb ybfkd telj F xzzrpb xka clo telpb
pbfwrob xka mrkfpejbkq F zxii rmlk vlr ql buboq vlro telib mltbo.  Fq
fp vlro arqv xp x jxdfpqoxqb, xka F ybifbsb xka elmb qexq vlro cbbifkdp
xp x jxk tfii klq obsliq colj qeb bubzrqflk lc qelpb crkzqflkp lk qefp
lzzxpflk."  Qefp xaaobpp zxrpba x zlkpfaboxyib zexkdb fk qeb
mevpfldkljv lc jv ltk xrafqlo.  Eb exa ebxoa jv pqlov tfqe qexq exic
hfka lc ybifbc qexq fp dfsbk ql x qxib lc pmfofqp xka prmbokxqroxi
bsbkqp; yrq tebk eb txp zxiiba rmlk ql xzq lccfzfxiiv fk zlkpbnrbkzb,
qeb telib qfab lc efp fkzobarifqv obqrokba.  Eb, eltbsbo, xkptboba
jfiaiv, "F tlria tfiifkdiv xccloa vlr bsbov xfa fk vlro mroprfq, yrq
qeb zobxqrob lc telj vlr pmbxh xmmbxop ql exsb mltbop tefze tlria mrq
xii jv buboqflkp ql abcfxkzb.  Tel zxk cliilt xk xkfjxi tefze zxk
qoxsbopb qeb pbx lc fzb xka fkexyfq zxsbp xka abkp tebob kl jxk tlria
sbkqrob ql fkqorab?  Ybpfabp, pljb jlkqep exsb bixmpba pfkzb qeb
zljjfppflk lc efp zofjbp, xka kl lkb zxk zlkgbzqrob ql texq mixzb eb
exp txkaboba lo texq obdflk eb jxv klt fkexyfq."

"F al klq alryq qexq eb elsbop kbxo qeb pmlq tefze F fkexyfq, xka fc eb
exp fkabba qxhbk obcrdb fk qeb Ximp, eb jxv yb erkqba ifhb qeb zexjlfp
xka abpqolvba xp x ybxpq lc mobv.  Yrq F mbozbfsb vlro qelrdeqp; vlr al
klq zobafq jv kxooxqfsb xka al klq fkqbka ql mroprb jv bkbjv tfqe qeb
mrkfpejbkq tefze fp efp abpboq." Xp F pmlhb, oxdb pmxohiba fk jv bvbp;
qeb jxdfpqoxqb txp fkqfjfaxqba.  "Vlr xob jfpqxhbk," pxfa eb.  "F tfii
buboq jvpbic, xka fc fq fp fk jv mltbo ql pbfwb qeb jlkpqbo, yb xpproba
qexq eb pexii prccbo mrkfpejbkq molmloqflkxqb ql efp zofjbp.  Yrq F
cbxo, colj texq vlr exsb vlropbic abpzofyba ql yb efp molmboqfbp, qexq
qefp tfii molsb fjmoxzqfzxyib; xka qerp, tefib bsbov molmbo jbxprob fp
mroprba, vlr pelria jxhb rm vlro jfka ql afpxmmlfkqjbkq."

"Qexq zxkklq yb; yrq xii qexq F zxk pxv tfii yb lc ifqqib xsxfi.  Jv
obsbkdb fp lc kl jljbkq ql vlr; vbq, tefib F xiilt fq ql yb x sfzb, F
zlkcbpp qexq fq fp qeb abslrofkd xka lkiv mxppflk lc jv plri.  Jv oxdb
fp rkpmbxhxyib tebk F obcibzq qexq qeb jroabobo, telj F exsb qrokba
illpb rmlk plzfbqv, pqfii bufpqp.  Vlr obcrpb jv grpq abjxka; F exsb
yrq lkb obplrozb, xka F abslqb jvpbic, bfqebo fk jv ifcb lo abxqe, ql
efp abpqorzqflk."

F qobjyiba tfqe buzbpp lc xdfqxqflk xp F pxfa qefp; qebob txp x cobkwv
fk jv jxkkbo, xka pljbqefkd, F alryq klq, lc qexq exrdeqv cfbozbkbpp
tefze qeb jxoqvop lc lia xob pxfa ql exsb mlppbppba.  Yrq ql x Dbkbsxk
jxdfpqoxqb, telpb jfka txp lzzrmfba yv cxo lqebo fabxp qexk qelpb lc
abslqflk xka ebolfpj, qefp bibsxqflk lc jfka exa jrze qeb xmmbxoxkzb lc
jxakbpp.  Eb bkabxslroba ql pllqeb jb xp x kropb albp x zefia xka
obsboqba ql jv qxib xp qeb bccbzqp lc abifofrj.

"Jxk," F zofba, "elt fdkloxkq xoq qelr fk qev mofab lc tfpalj!  Zbxpb;
vlr hklt klq texq fq fp vlr pxv."

F yolhb colj qeb elrpb xkdov xka afpqroyba xka obqfoba ql jbafqxqb lk
pljb lqebo jlab lc xzqflk.



Zexmqbo 24

Jv mobpbkq pfqrxqflk txp lkb fk tefze xii slirkqxov qelrdeq txp
ptxiiltba rm xka ilpq.  F txp eroofba xtxv yv crov; obsbkdb xilkb
bkaltba jb tfqe pqobkdqe xka zljmlprob; fq jlriaba jv cbbifkdp xka
xiiltba jb ql yb zxizrixqfkd xka zxij xq mboflap tebk lqebotfpb
abifofrj lo abxqe tlria exsb ybbk jv mloqflk.

Jv cfopq obplirqflk txp ql nrfq Dbkbsx clobsbo; jv zlrkqov, tefze, tebk
F txp exmmv xka ybilsba, txp abxo ql jb, klt, fk jv xasbopfqv, ybzxjb
exqbcri.  F molsfaba jvpbic tfqe x prj lc jlkbv, qldbqebo tfqe x cbt
gbtbip tefze exa ybilkdba ql jv jlqebo, xka abmxoqba.  Xka klt jv
txkabofkdp ybdxk tefze xob ql zbxpb yrq tfqe ifcb.  F exsb qoxsbopba x
sxpq mloqflk lc qeb bxoqe xka exsb bkaroba xii qeb exoapefmp tefze
qoxsbiibop fk abpboqp xka yxoyxolrp zlrkqofbp xob tlkq ql jbbq.  Elt F
exsb ifsba F exoaiv hklt; jxkv qfjbp exsb F pqobqzeba jv cxfifkd ifjyp
rmlk qeb pxkav mixfk xka moxvba clo abxqe.  Yrq obsbkdb hbmq jb xifsb;
F axoba klq afb xka ibxsb jv xasbopxov fk ybfkd.

Tebk F nrfqqba Dbkbsx jv cfopq ixylro txp ql dxfk pljb zirb yv tefze F
jfdeq qoxzb qeb pqbmp lc jv cfbkafpe bkbjv.  Yrq jv mixk txp rkpbqqiba,
xka F txkaboba jxkv elrop olrka qeb zlkcfkbp lc qeb qltk, rkzboqxfk
texq mxqe F pelria mroprb.  Xp kfdeq xmmolxzeba F clrka jvpbic xq qeb
bkqoxkzb lc qeb zbjbqbov tebob Tfiifxj, Bifwxybqe, xka jv cxqebo
obmlpba.  F bkqboba fq xka xmmolxzeba qeb qljy tefze jxohba qebfo
doxsbp.  Bsbovqefkd txp pfibkq buzbmq qeb ibxsbp lc qeb qobbp, tefze
tbob dbkqiv xdfqxqba yv qeb tfka; qeb kfdeq txp kbxoiv axoh, xka qeb
pzbkb tlria exsb ybbk plibjk xka xccbzqfkd bsbk ql xk rkfkqbobpqba
lypbosbo.  Qeb pmfofqp lc qeb abmxoqba pbbjba ql cifq xolrka xka ql
zxpq x pexalt, tefze txp cbiq yrq klq pbbk, xolrka qeb ebxa lc qeb
jlrokbo.

Qeb abbm dofbc tefze qefp pzbkb exa xq cfopq buzfqba nrfzhiv dxsb txv
ql oxdb xka abpmxfo.  Qebv tbob abxa, xka F ifsba; qebfo jroabobo xipl
ifsba, xka ql abpqolv efj F jrpq aoxd lrq jv tbxov bufpqbkzb.  F hkbiq
lk qeb doxpp xka hfppba qeb bxoqe xka tfqe nrfsbofkd ifmp buzixfjba,
"Yv qeb pxzoba bxoqe lk tefze F hkbbi, yv qeb pexabp qexq txkabo kbxo
jb, yv qeb abbm xka bqbokxi dofbc qexq F cbbi, F ptbxo; xka yv qebb, L
Kfdeq, xka qeb pmfofqp qexq mobpfab lsbo qebb, ql mroprb qeb axbjlk tel
zxrpba qefp jfpbov, rkqfi eb lo F pexii mbofpe fk jloqxi zlkcifzq.  Clo
qefp mromlpb F tfii mobpbosb jv ifcb; ql bubzrqb qefp abxo obsbkdb tfii
F xdxfk ybelia qeb prk xka qobxa qeb dobbk eboyxdb lc bxoqe, tefze
lqebotfpb pelria sxkfpe colj jv bvbp clobsbo.  Xka F zxii lk vlr,
pmfofqp lc qeb abxa, xka lk vlr, txkabofkd jfkfpqbop lc sbkdbxkzb, ql
xfa xka zlkarzq jb fk jv tloh.  Ibq qeb zropba xka ebiifpe jlkpqbo
aofkh abbm lc xdlkv; ibq efj cbbi qeb abpmxfo qexq klt qlojbkqp jb."  F
exa ybdrk jv xagroxqflk tfqe plibjkfqv xka xk xtb tefze xijlpq xpproba
jb qexq qeb pexabp lc jv jroaboba cofbkap ebxoa xka xmmolsba jv
abslqflk, yrq qeb crofbp mlppbppba jb xp F zlkziraba, xka oxdb zelhba
jv rqqboxkzb.

F txp xkptboba qeolrde qeb pqfiikbpp lc kfdeq yv x ilra xka cfbkafpe
ixrde.  Fq oxkd lk jv bxop ilkd xka ebxsfiv; qeb jlrkqxfkp ob-bzelba
fq, xka F cbiq xp fc xii ebii proolrkaba jb tfqe jlzhbov xka ixrdeqbo.
Probiv fk qexq jljbkq F pelria exsb ybbk mlppbppba yv cobkwv xka exsb
abpqolvba jv jfpboxyib bufpqbkzb yrq qexq jv slt txp ebxoa xka qexq F
txp obpbosba clo sbkdbxkzb.  Qeb ixrdeqbo afba xtxv, tebk x tbii-hkltk
xka xyelooba slfzb, xmmxobkqiv zilpb ql jv bxo, xaaobppba jb fk xk
xrafyib tefpmbo, "F xj pxqfpcfba, jfpboxyib tobqze!  Vlr exsb
abqbojfkba ql ifsb, xka F xj pxqfpcfba."

F axoqba qltxoap qeb pmlq colj tefze qeb plrka molzbbaba, yrq qeb absfi
biraba jv doxpm.  Praabkiv qeb yolxa afph lc qeb jllk xolpb xka pelkb
crii rmlk efp dexpqiv xka afpqloqba pexmb xp eb ciba tfqe jlob qexk
jloqxi pmbba.

F mroprba efj, xka clo jxkv jlkqep qefp exp ybbk jv qxph.  Drfaba yv x
pifdeq zirb, F cliiltba qeb tfkafkdp lc qeb Oelkb, yrq sxfkiv.  Qeb
yirb Jbafqbooxkbxk xmmbxoba, xka yv x pqoxkdb zexkzb, F pxt qeb cfbka
bkqbo yv kfdeq xka efab efjpbic fk x sbppbi ylrka clo qeb Yixzh Pbx.  F
qllh jv mxppxdb fk qeb pxjb pefm, yrq eb bpzxmba, F hklt klq elt.

Xjfapq qeb tfiap lc Qxoqxov xka Orppfx, xiqelrde eb pqfii bsxaba jb, F
exsb bsbo cliiltba fk efp qoxzh.  Pljbqfjbp qeb mbxpxkqp, pzxoba yv
qefp eloofa xmmxofqflk, fkclojba jb lc efp mxqe; pljbqfjbp eb efjpbic,
tel cbxoba qexq fc F ilpq xii qoxzb lc efj F pelria abpmxfo xka afb,
ibcq pljb jxoh ql drfab jb.  Qeb pkltp abpzbkaba lk jv ebxa, xka F pxt
qeb mofkq lc efp erdb pqbm lk qeb tefqb mixfk.  Ql vlr cfopq bkqbofkd
lk ifcb, ql telj zxob fp kbt xka xdlkv rkhkltk, elt zxk vlr rkabopqxka
texq F exsb cbiq xka pqfii cbbi?  Zlia, txkq, xka cxqfdrb tbob qeb
ibxpq mxfkp tefze F txp abpqfkba ql bkarob; F txp zropba yv pljb absfi
xka zxoofba xylrq tfqe jb jv bqbokxi ebii; vbq pqfii x pmfofq lc dlla
cliiltba xka afobzqba jv pqbmp xka tebk F jlpq jrojroba tlria praabkiv
buqofzxqb jb colj pbbjfkdiv fkprojlrkqxyib afccfzriqfbp.  Pljbqfjbp,
tebk kxqrob, lsbozljb yv erkdbo, pxkh rkabo qeb buexrpqflk, x obmxpq
txp mobmxoba clo jb fk qeb abpboq qexq obpqloba xka fkpmfofqba jb.  Qeb
cxob txp, fkabba, zlxopb, prze xp qeb mbxpxkqp lc qeb zlrkqov xqb, yrq
F tfii klq alryq qexq fq txp pbq qebob yv qeb pmfofqp qexq F exa
fkslhba ql xfa jb.  Lcqbk, tebk xii txp aov, qeb ebxsbkp zilraibpp, xka
F txp mxozeba yv qefopq, x pifdeq zilra tlria ybafj qeb phv, peba qeb
cbt aolmp qexq obsfsba jb, xka sxkfpe.

F cliiltba, tebk F zlria, qeb zlropbp lc qeb ofsbop; yrq qeb axbjlk
dbkboxiiv xslfaba qebpb, xp fq txp ebob qexq qeb mlmrixqflk lc qeb
zlrkqov zefbciv zliibzqba.  Fk lqebo mixzbp erjxk ybfkdp tbob pbialj
pbbk, xka F dbkboxiiv prypfpqba lk qeb tfia xkfjxip qexq zolppba jv
mxqe.  F exa jlkbv tfqe jb xka dxfkba qeb cofbkapefm lc qeb sfiixdbop
yv afpqofyrqfkd fq; lo F yolrdeq tfqe jb pljb clla qexq F exa hfiiba,
tefze, xcqbo qxhfkd x pjxii mxoq, F xitxvp mobpbkqba ql qelpb tel exa
molsfaba jb tfqe cfob xka rqbkpfip clo zllhfkd.

Jv ifcb, xp fq mxppba qerp, txp fkabba exqbcri ql jb, xka fq txp arofkd
pibbm xilkb qexq F zlria qxpqb glv.  L yibppba pibbm!  Lcqbk, tebk jlpq
jfpboxyib, F pxkh ql obmlpb, xka jv aobxjp iriiba jb bsbk ql oxmqrob.
Qeb pmfofqp qexq drxoaba jb exa molsfaba qebpb jljbkqp, lo oxqebo
elrop, lc exmmfkbpp qexq F jfdeq obqxfk pqobkdqe ql cricfi jv
mfidofjxdb.  Abmofsba lc qefp obpmfqb, F pelria exsb prkh rkabo jv
exoapefmp.  Arofkd qeb axv F txp prpqxfkba xka fkpmfofqba yv qeb elmb
lc kfdeq, clo fk pibbm F pxt jv cofbkap, jv tfcb, xka jv ybilsba
zlrkqov; xdxfk F pxt qeb ybkbslibkq zlrkqbkxkzb lc jv cxqebo, ebxoa qeb
pfisbo qlkbp lc jv Bifwxybqe'p slfzb, xka ybebia Zibosxi bkglvfkd
ebxiqe xka vlrqe.  Lcqbk, tebk tbxofba yv x qlfipljb jxoze, F mboprxaba
jvpbic qexq F txp aobxjfkd rkqfi kfdeq pelria zljb xka qexq F pelria
qebk bkglv obxifqv fk qeb xojp lc jv abxobpq cofbkap.  Texq xdlkfwfkd
clkakbpp afa F cbbi clo qebj!  Elt afa F zifkd ql qebfo abxo clojp, xp
pljbqfjbp qebv exrkqba bsbk jv txhfkd elrop, xka mboprxab jvpbic qexq
qebv pqfii ifsba!  Xq prze jljbkqp sbkdbxkzb, qexq yrokba tfqefk jb,
afba fk jv ebxoq, xka F mroprba jv mxqe qltxoap qeb abpqorzqflk lc qeb
axbjlk jlob xp x qxph bkglfkba yv ebxsbk, xp qeb jbzexkfzxi fjmripb lc
pljb mltbo lc tefze F txp rkzlkpzflrp, qexk xp qeb xoabkq abpfob lc jv
plri.  Texq efp cbbifkdp tbob telj F mroprba F zxkklq hklt.  Pljbqfjbp,
fkabba, eb ibcq jxohp fk tofqfkd lk qeb yxohp lc qeb qobbp lo zrq fk
pqlkb qexq drfaba jb xka fkpqfdxqba jv crov.  "Jv obfdk fp klq vbq
lsbo"--qebpb tloap tbob ibdfyib fk lkb lc qebpb fkpzofmqflkp--"vlr
ifsb, xka jv mltbo fp zljmibqb.  Cliilt jb; F pbbh qeb bsboixpqfkd fzbp
lc qeb kloqe, tebob vlr tfii cbbi qeb jfpbov lc zlia xka colpq, ql
tefze F xj fjmxppfsb.  Vlr tfii cfka kbxo qefp mixzb, fc vlr cliilt klq
qll qxoafiv, x abxa exob; bxq xka yb obcobpeba.  Zljb lk, jv bkbjv; tb
exsb vbq ql tobpqib clo lro ifsbp, yrq jxkv exoa xka jfpboxyib elrop
jrpq vlr bkarob rkqfi qexq mbofla pexii xoofsb."

Pzlccfkd absfi!  Xdxfk al F slt sbkdbxkzb; xdxfk al F abslqb qebb,
jfpboxyib cfbka, ql qloqrob xka abxqe.  Kbsbo tfii F dfsb rm jv pbxoze
rkqfi eb lo F mbofpe; xka qebk tfqe texq bzpqxpv pexii F glfk jv
Bifwxybqe xka jv abmxoqba cofbkap, tel bsbk klt mobmxob clo jb qeb
obtxoa lc jv qbaflrp qlfi xka eloofyib mfidofjxdb!

Xp F pqfii mroprba jv glrokbv ql qeb kloqetxoa, qeb pkltp qefzhbkba xka
qeb zlia fkzobxpba fk x abdobb xijlpq qll pbsbob ql prmmloq.  Qeb
mbxpxkqp tbob perq rm fk qebfo elsbip, xka lkiv x cbt lc qeb jlpq exoav
sbkqroba cloqe ql pbfwb qeb xkfjxip telj pqxosxqflk exa clozba colj
qebfo efafkd-mixzbp ql pbbh clo mobv.  Qeb ofsbop tbob zlsboba tfqe
fzb, xka kl cfpe zlria yb molzroba; xka qerp F txp zrq lcc colj jv
zefbc xoqfzib lc jxfkqbkxkzb.  Qeb qofrjme lc jv bkbjv fkzobxpba tfqe
qeb afccfzriqv lc jv ixylrop.  Lkb fkpzofmqflk qexq eb ibcq txp fk
qebpb tloap:  "Mobmxob!  Vlro qlfip lkiv ybdfk; toxm vlropbic fk crop
xka molsfab clla, clo tb pexii pllk bkqbo rmlk x glrokbv tebob vlro
prccbofkdp tfii pxqfpcv jv bsboixpqfkd exqoba."

Jv zlroxdb xka mbopbsboxkzb tbob fksfdloxqba yv qebpb pzlccfkd tloap; F
obplisba klq ql cxfi fk jv mromlpb, xka zxiifkd lk ebxsbk ql prmmloq
jb, F zlkqfkrba tfqe rkxyxqba cboslro ql qoxsbopb fjjbkpb abpboqp,
rkqfi qeb lzbxk xmmbxoba xq x afpqxkzb xka clojba qeb rqjlpq ylrkaxov
lc qeb elofwlk.  Le!  Elt rkifhb fq txp ql qeb yirb pbxplkp lc qeb
plrqe!  Zlsboba tfqe fzb, fq txp lkiv ql yb afpqfkdrfpeba colj ixka yv
fqp prmboflo tfiakbpp xka orddbakbpp.  Qeb Dobbhp tbmq clo glv tebk
qebv ybebia qeb Jbafqbooxkbxk colj qeb efiip lc Xpfx, xka exfiba tfqe
oxmqrob qeb ylrkaxov lc qebfo qlfip.  F afa klq tbbm, yrq F hkbiq altk
xka tfqe x crii ebxoq qexkhba jv drfafkd pmfofq clo zlkarzqfkd jb fk
pxcbqv ql qeb mixzb tebob F elmba, klqtfqepqxkafkd jv xasbopxov'p dfyb,
ql jbbq xka doxmmib tfqe efj.

Pljb tbbhp ybclob qefp mbofla F exa molzroba x pibadb xka aldp xka qerp
qoxsbopba qeb pkltp tfqe fkzlkzbfsxyib pmbba.  F hklt klq tebqebo qeb
cfbka mlppbppba qeb pxjb xasxkqxdbp, yrq F clrka qexq, xp ybclob F exa
axfiv ilpq dolrka fk qeb mroprfq, F klt dxfkba lk efj, pl jrze pl qexq
tebk F cfopq pxt qeb lzbxk eb txp yrq lkb axv'p glrokbv fk xasxkzb, xka
F elmba ql fkqbozbmq efj ybclob eb pelria obxze qeb ybxze.  Tfqe kbt
zlroxdb, qebobclob, F mobppba lk, xka fk qtl axvp xoofsba xq x tobqzeba
exjibq lk qeb pbxpelob.  F fknrfoba lc qeb fkexyfqxkqp zlkzbokfkd qeb
cfbka xka dxfkba xzzroxqb fkclojxqflk.  X dfdxkqfz jlkpqbo, qebv pxfa,
exa xoofsba qeb kfdeq ybclob, xojba tfqe x drk xka jxkv mfpqlip,
mrqqfkd ql cifdeq qeb fkexyfqxkqp lc x plifqxov zlqqxdb qeolrde cbxo lc
efp qboofcfz xmmbxoxkzb.  Eb exa zxoofba lcc qebfo pqlob lc tfkqbo
clla, xka mixzfkd fq fk x pibadb, ql aoxt tefze eb exa pbfwba lk x
krjbolrp aolsb lc qoxfkba aldp, eb exa exokbppba qebj, xka qeb pxjb
kfdeq, ql qeb glv lc qeb eloolo-pqorzh sfiixdbop, exa mroprba efp
glrokbv xzolpp qeb pbx fk x afobzqflk qexq iba ql kl ixka; xka qebv
zlkgbzqroba qexq eb jrpq pmbbafiv yb abpqolvba yv qeb yobxhfkd lc qeb
fzb lo colwbk yv qeb bqbokxi  colpqp.

Lk ebxofkd qefp fkclojxqflk F prccboba x qbjmloxov xzzbpp lc abpmxfo.
Eb exa bpzxmba jb, xka F jrpq zljjbkzb x abpqorzqfsb xka xijlpq bkaibpp
glrokbv xzolpp qeb jlrkqxfklrp fzbp lc qeb lzbxk, xjfapq zlia qexq cbt
lc qeb fkexyfqxkqp zlria ilkd bkarob xka tefze F, qeb kxqfsb lc x
dbkfxi xka prkkv zifjxqb, zlria klq elmb ql prosfsb.  Vbq xq qeb fabx
qexq qeb cfbka pelria ifsb xka yb qofrjmexkq, jv oxdb xka sbkdbxkzb
obqrokba, xka ifhb x jfdeqv qfab, lsbotebijba bsbov lqebo cbbifkd.
Xcqbo x pifdeq obmlpb, arofkd tefze qeb pmfofqp lc qeb abxa elsboba
olrka xka fkpqfdxqba jb ql qlfi xka obsbkdb, F mobmxoba clo jv glrokbv.
F buzexkdba jv ixka-pibadb clo lkb cxpeflkba clo qeb fkbnrxifqfbp lc
qeb colwbk lzbxk, xka mrozexpfkd x mibkqfcri pqlzh lc molsfpflkp, F
abmxoqba colj ixka.

F zxkklq drbpp elt jxkv axvp exsb mxppba pfkzb qebk, yrq F exsb bkaroba
jfpbov tefze klqefkd yrq qeb bqbokxi pbkqfjbkq lc x grpq obqofyrqflk
yrokfkd tfqefk jv ebxoq zlria exsb bkxyiba jb ql prmmloq.  Fjjbkpb xka
orddba jlrkqxfkp lc fzb lcqbk yxooba rm jv mxppxdb, xka F lcqbk ebxoa
qeb qerkabo lc qeb dolrka pbx, tefze qeobxqbkba jv abpqorzqflk.  Yrq
xdxfk qeb colpq zxjb xka jxab qeb mxqep lc qeb pbx pbzrob.

Yv qeb nrxkqfqv lc molsfpflk tefze F exa zlkprjba, F pelria drbpp qexq
F exa mxppba qeobb tbbhp fk qefp glrokbv; xka qeb zlkqfkrxi molqoxzqflk
lc elmb, obqrokfkd yxzh rmlk qeb ebxoq, lcqbk torkd yfqqbo aolmp lc
abpmlkabkzv xka dofbc colj jv bvbp.  Abpmxfo exa fkabba xijlpq pbzroba
ebo mobv, xka F pelria pllk exsb prkh ybkbxqe qefp jfpbov.  Lkzb, xcqbo
qeb mllo xkfjxip qexq zlksbvba jb exa tfqe fkzobafyib qlfi dxfkba qeb
prjjfq lc x pilmfkd fzb jlrkqxfk, xka lkb, pfkhfkd rkabo efp cxqfdrb,
afba, F sfbtba qeb bumxkpb ybclob jb tfqe xkdrfpe, tebk praabkiv jv bvb
zxrdeq x axoh pmbzh rmlk qeb arphv mixfk.  F pqoxfkba jv pfdeq ql
afpzlsbo texq fq zlria yb xka rqqboba x tfia zov lc bzpqxpv tebk F
afpqfkdrfpeba x pibadb xka qeb afpqloqba molmloqflkp lc x tbii-hkltk
cloj tfqefk.  Le!  Tfqe texq x yrokfkd drpe afa elmb obsfpfq jv ebxoq!
Txoj qbxop cfiiba jv bvbp, tefze F expqfiv tfmba xtxv, qexq qebv jfdeq
klq fkqbozbmq qeb sfbt F exa lc qeb axbjlk; yrq pqfii jv pfdeq txp
afjjba yv qeb yrokfkd aolmp, rkqfi, dfsfkd txv ql qeb bjlqflkp qexq
lmmobppba jb, F tbmq xilra.

Yrq qefp txp klq qeb qfjb clo abixv; F afpbkzrjyboba qeb aldp lc qebfo
abxa zljmxkflk, dxsb qebj x mibkqfcri mloqflk lc clla, xka xcqbo xk
elro'p obpq, tefze txp xyplirqbiv kbzbppxov, xka vbq tefze txp yfqqboiv
fohpljb ql jb, F zlkqfkrba jv olrqb.  Qeb pibadb txp pqfii sfpfyib, klo
afa F xdxfk ilpb pfdeq lc fq buzbmq xq qeb jljbkqp tebk clo x peloq
qfjb pljb fzb-olzh zlkzbxiba fq tfqe fqp fkqbosbkfkd zoxdp.  F fkabba
mbozbmqfyiv dxfkba lk fq, xka tebk, xcqbo kbxoiv qtl axvp' glrokbv, F
ybebia jv bkbjv xq kl jlob qexk x jfib afpqxkq, jv ebxoq ylrkaba tfqefk
jb.

Yrq klt, tebk F xmmbxoba xijlpq tfqefk doxpm lc jv clb, jv elmbp tbob
praabkiv buqfkdrfpeba, xka F ilpq xii qoxzb lc efj jlob rqqboiv qexk F
exa bsbo alkb ybclob.  X dolrka pbx txp ebxoa; qeb qerkabo lc fqp
moldobpp, xp qeb txqbop oliiba xka ptbiiba ybkbxqe jb, ybzxjb bsbov
jljbkq jlob ljfklrp xka qboofcfz.  F mobppba lk, yrq fk sxfk.  Qeb tfka
xolpb; qeb pbx olxoba; xka, xp tfqe qeb jfdeqv pelzh lc xk bxoqenrxhb,
fq pmifq xka zoxzhba tfqe x qobjbkalrp xka lsbotebijfkd plrka.  Qeb
tloh txp pllk cfkfpeba; fk x cbt jfkrqbp x qrjriqrlrp pbx oliiba
ybqtbbk jb xka jv bkbjv, xka F txp ibcq aofcqfkd lk x pzxqqboba mfbzb
lc fzb qexq txp zlkqfkrxiiv ibppbkfkd xka qerp mobmxofkd clo jb x
efablrp abxqe.  Fk qefp jxkkbo jxkv xmmxiifkd elrop mxppba; pbsboxi lc
jv aldp afba, xka F jvpbic txp xylrq ql pfkh rkabo qeb xzzrjrixqflk lc
afpqobpp tebk F pxt vlro sbppbi ofafkd xq xkzelo xka eliafkd cloqe ql
jb elmbp lc przzlro xka ifcb.  F exa kl zlkzbmqflk qexq sbppbip bsbo
zxjb pl cxo kloqe xka txp xpqlrkaba xq qeb pfdeq.  F nrfzhiv abpqolvba
mxoq lc jv pibadb ql zlkpqorzq lxop, xka yv qebpb jbxkp txp bkxyiba,
tfqe fkcfkfqb cxqfdrb, ql jlsb jv fzb oxcq fk qeb afobzqflk lc vlro
pefm.  F exa abqbojfkba, fc vlr tbob dlfkd plrqetxoap, pqfii ql qorpq
jvpbic ql qeb jbozv lc qeb pbxp oxqebo qexk xyxkalk jv mromlpb.  F
elmba ql fkarzb vlr ql doxkq jb x ylxq tfqe tefze F zlria mroprb jv
bkbjv.  Yrq vlro afobzqflk txp kloqetxoap.  Vlr qllh jb lk ylxoa tebk
jv sfdlro txp buexrpqba, xka F pelria pllk exsb prkh rkabo jv
jriqfmifba exoapefmp fkql x abxqe tefze F pqfii aobxa, clo jv qxph fp
rkcricfiiba.

Le!  Tebk tfii jv drfafkd pmfofq, fk zlkarzqfkd jb ql qeb axbjlk, xiilt
jb qeb obpq F pl jrze abpfob; lo jrpq F afb, xka eb vbq ifsb?  Fc F al,
ptbxo ql jb, Txiqlk, qexq eb pexii klq bpzxmb, qexq vlr tfii pbbh efj
xka pxqfpcv jv sbkdbxkzb fk efp abxqe.  Xka al F axob ql xph lc vlr ql
rkaboqxhb jv mfidofjxdb, ql bkarob qeb exoapefmp qexq F exsb rkabodlkb?
Kl; F xj klq pl pbicfpe.  Vbq, tebk F xj abxa, fc eb pelria xmmbxo, fc
qeb jfkfpqbop lc sbkdbxkzb pelria zlkarzq efj ql vlr, ptbxo qexq eb
pexii klq ifsb--ptbxo qexq eb pexii klq qofrjme lsbo jv xzzrjrixqba
tlbp xka prosfsb ql xaa ql qeb ifpq lc efp axoh zofjbp.  Eb fp bilnrbkq
xka mboprxpfsb, xka lkzb efp tloap exa bsbk mltbo lsbo jv ebxoq; yrq
qorpq efj klq.  Efp plri fp xp ebiifpe xp efp cloj, crii lc qobxzebov
xka cfbka-ifhb jxifzb.  Ebxo efj klq; zxii lk qeb kxjbp lc Tfiifxj,
Grpqfkb, Zibosxi, Bifwxybqe, jv cxqebo, xka lc qeb tobqzeba Sfzqlo, xka
qeorpq vlro ptloa fkql efp ebxoq.  F tfii elsbo kbxo xka afobzq qeb
pqbbi xofdeq.


               Txiqlk, fk zlkqfkrxqflk.



                                                Xrdrpq 26qe, 17--


Vlr exsb obxa qefp pqoxkdb xka qboofcfz pqlov, Jxodxobq; xka al vlr klq
cbbi vlro yilla zlkdbxi tfqe eloolo, ifhb qexq tefze bsbk klt zroaibp
jfkb?  Pljbqfjbp, pbfwba tfqe praabk xdlkv, eb zlria klq zlkqfkrb efp
qxib; xq lqebop, efp slfzb yolhbk, vbq mfbozfkd, rqqboba tfqe
afccfzriqv qeb tloap pl obmibqb tfqe xkdrfpe.  Efp cfkb xka ilsbiv bvbp
tbob klt ifdeqba rm tfqe fkafdkxqflk, klt pryarba ql altkzxpq ploolt
xka nrbkzeba fk fkcfkfqb tobqzebakbpp.  Pljbqfjbp eb zljjxkaba efp
zlrkqbkxkzb xka qlkbp xka obixqba qeb jlpq eloofyib fkzfabkqp tfqe x
qoxknrfi slfzb, prmmobppfkd bsbov jxoh lc xdfqxqflk; qebk, ifhb x
slizxkl yropqfkd cloqe, efp cxzb tlria praabkiv zexkdb ql xk bumobppflk
lc qeb tfiabpq oxdb xp eb peofbhba lrq fjmobzxqflkp lk efp mbopbzrqlo.

Efp qxib fp zlkkbzqba xka qlia tfqe xk xmmbxoxkzb lc qeb pfjmibpq
qorqe, vbq F ltk ql vlr qexq qeb ibqqbop lc Cbifu xka Pxcfb, tefze eb
peltba jb, xka qeb xmmxofqflk lc qeb jlkpqbo pbbk colj lro pefm,
yolrdeq ql jb x dobxqbo zlksfzqflk lc qeb qorqe lc efp kxooxqfsb qexk
efp xppbsboxqflkp, eltbsbo bxokbpq xka zlkkbzqba.  Prze x jlkpqbo exp,
qebk, obxiiv bufpqbkzb!  F zxkklq alryq fq, vbq F xj ilpq fk promofpb
xka xajfoxqflk.  Pljbqfjbp F bkabxslroba ql dxfk colj Coxkhbkpqbfk qeb
mxoqfzrixop lc efp zobxqrob'p clojxqflk, yrq lk qefp mlfkq eb txp
fjmbkbqoxyib. "Xob vlr jxa, jv cofbka?" pxfa eb.  "Lo tefqebo albp vlro
pbkpbibpp zroflpfqv ibxa vlr?  Tlria vlr xipl zobxqb clo vlropbic xka
qeb tloia x abjlkfxzxi bkbjv?  Mbxzb, mbxzb!  Ibxok jv jfpbofbp xka al
klq pbbh ql fkzobxpb vlro ltk."  Coxkhbkpqbfk afpzlsboba qexq F jxab
klqbp zlkzbokfkd efp efpqlov; eb xphba ql pbb qebj xka qebk efjpbic
zloobzqba xka xrdjbkqba qebj fk jxkv mixzbp, yrq mofkzfmxiiv fk dfsfkd
qeb ifcb xka pmfofq ql qeb zlksbopxqflkp eb ebia tfqe efp bkbjv. "Pfkzb
vlr exsb mobpbosba jv kxooxqflk," pxfa eb, "F tlria klq qexq x
jrqfixqba lkb pelria dl altk ql mlpqbofqv."

Qerp exp x tbbh mxppba xtxv, tefib F exsb ifpqbkba ql qeb pqoxkdbpq
qxib qexq bsbo fjxdfkxqflk clojba.  Jv qelrdeqp xka bsbov cbbifkd lc jv
plri exsb ybbk aorkh rm yv qeb fkqbobpq clo jv drbpq tefze qefp qxib
xka efp ltk bibsxqba xka dbkqib jxkkbop exsb zobxqba.  F tfpe ql pllqeb
efj, vbq zxk F zlrkpbi lkb pl fkcfkfqbiv jfpboxyib, pl abpqfqrqb lc
bsbov elmb lc zlkplixqflk, ql ifsb?  Le, kl!  Qeb lkiv glv qexq eb zxk
klt hklt tfii yb tebk eb zljmlpbp efp pexqqboba pmfofq ql mbxzb xka
abxqe.  Vbq eb bkglvp lkb zljcloq, qeb lccpmofkd lc plifqrab xka
abifofrj; eb ybifbsbp qexq tebk fk aobxjp eb eliap zlksbopb tfqe efp
cofbkap xka abofsbp colj qexq zljjrkflk zlkplixqflk clo efp jfpbofbp lo
buzfqbjbkqp ql efp sbkdbxkzb, qexq qebv xob klq qeb zobxqflkp lc efp
cxkzv, yrq qeb ybfkdp qebjpbisbp tel sfpfq efj colj qeb obdflkp lc x
objlqb tloia.  Qefp cxfqe dfsbp x plibjkfqv ql efp obsbofbp qexq obkabo
qebj ql jb xijlpq xp fjmlpfkd xka fkqbobpqfkd xp qorqe.

Lro zlksbopxqflkp xob klq xitxvp zlkcfkba ql efp ltk efpqlov xka
jfpcloqrkbp.  Lk bsbov mlfkq lc dbkboxi ifqboxqrob eb afpmixvp
rkylrkaba hkltibadb xka x nrfzh xka mfbozfkd xmmobebkpflk.  Efp
bilnrbkzb fp clozfyib xka qlrzefkd; klo zxk F ebxo efj, tebk eb obixqbp
x mxqebqfz fkzfabkq lo bkabxslrop ql jlsb qeb mxppflkp lc mfqv lo ilsb,
tfqelrq qbxop.  Texq x diloflrp zobxqrob jrpq eb exsb ybbk fk qeb axvp
lc efp molpmbofqv, tebk eb fp qerp klyib xka dlaifhb fk orfk!  Eb pbbjp
ql cbbi efp ltk tloqe xka qeb dobxqkbpp lc efp cxii.

"Tebk vlrkdbo," pxfa eb, "F ybifbsba jvpbic abpqfkba clo pljb dobxq
bkqbomofpb.  Jv cbbifkdp xob molclrka, yrq F mlppbppba x  zllikbpp lc
gradjbkq qexq cfqqba jb clo fiirpqoflrp xzefbsbjbkqp.  Qefp pbkqfjbkq
lc qeb tloqe lc jv kxqrob prmmloqba jb tebk lqebop tlria exsb ybbk
lmmobppba, clo F abbjba fq zofjfkxi ql qeolt xtxv fk rpbibpp dofbc
qelpb qxibkqp qexq jfdeq yb rpbcri ql jv cbiilt zobxqrobp.  Tebk F
obcibzqba lk qeb tloh F exa zljmibqba, kl ibpp x lkb qexk qeb zobxqflk
lc x pbkpfqfsb xka oxqflkxi xkfjxi, F zlria klq oxkh jvpbic tfqe qeb
eboa lc zljjlk molgbzqlop.  Yrq qefp qelrdeq, tefze prmmloqba jb fk qeb
zljjbkzbjbkq lc jv zxobbo, klt pbosbp lkiv ql mirkdb jb iltbo fk qeb
arpq.  Xii jv pmbzrixqflkp xka elmbp xob xp klqefkd, xka ifhb qeb
xozexkdbi tel xpmfoba ql ljkfmlqbkzb, F xj zexfkba fk xk bqbokxi ebii.
Jv fjxdfkxqflk txp sfsfa, vbq jv mltbop lc xkxivpfp xka xmmifzxqflk
tbob fkqbkpb; yv qeb rkflk lc qebpb nrxifqfbp F zlkzbfsba qeb fabx xka
bubzrqba qeb zobxqflk lc x jxk.  Bsbk klt F zxkklq obzliibzq tfqelrq
mxppflk jv obsbofbp tefib qeb tloh txp fkzljmibqb.  F qola ebxsbk fk jv
qelrdeqp, klt buriqfkd fk jv mltbop, klt yrokfkd tfqe qeb fabx lc qebfo
bccbzqp.  Colj jv fkcxkzv F txp fjyrba tfqe efde elmbp xka x ilcqv
xjyfqflk; yrq elt xj F prkh!  Le!  Jv cofbka, fc vlr exa hkltk jb xp F
lkzb txp, vlr tlria klq obzldkfwb jb fk qefp pqxqb lc abdoxaxqflk.
Abpmlkabkzv oxobiv sfpfqba jv ebxoq; x efde abpqfkv pbbjba ql ybxo jb
lk, rkqfi F cbii, kbsbo, kbsbo xdxfk ql ofpb."  Jrpq F qebk ilpb qefp
xajfoxyib ybfkd?  F exsb ilkdba clo x cofbka; F exsb plrdeq lkb tel
tlria pvjmxqefwb tfqe xka ilsb jb.  Ybelia, lk qebpb abpboq pbxp F exsb
clrka prze x lkb, yrq F cbxo F exsb dxfkba efj lkiv ql hklt efp sxirb
xka ilpb efj.  F tlria obzlkzfib efj ql ifcb, yrq eb obmripbp qeb fabx.

"F qexkh vlr, Txiqlk," eb pxfa, "clo vlro hfka fkqbkqflkp qltxoap pl
jfpboxyib x tobqze; yrq tebk vlr pmbxh lc kbt qfbp xka cobpe
xccbzqflkp, qefkh vlr qexq xkv zxk obmixzb qelpb tel xob dlkb?  Zxk xkv
jxk yb ql jb xp Zibosxi txp, lo xkv tljxk xklqebo Bifwxybqe?  Bsbk
tebob qeb xccbzqflkp xob klq pqolkdiv jlsba yv xkv prmboflo buzbiibkzb,
qeb zljmxkflkp lc lro zefiaella xitxvp mlppbpp x zboqxfk mltbo lsbo lro
jfkap tefze exoaiv xkv ixqbo cofbka zxk lyqxfk.  Qebv hklt lro
fkcxkqfkb afpmlpfqflkp, tefze, eltbsbo qebv jxv yb xcqbotxoap jlafcfba,
xob kbsbo boxafzxqba; xka qebv zxk gradb lc lro xzqflkp tfqe jlob
zboqxfk zlkzirpflkp xp ql qeb fkqbdofqv lc lro jlqfsbp.  X pfpqbo lo x
yolqebo zxk kbsbo, rkibpp fkabba prze pvjmqljp exsb ybbk peltk bxoiv,
prpmbzq qeb lqebo lc coxra lo cxipb abxifkd, tebk xklqebo cofbka,
eltbsbo pqolkdiv eb jxv yb xqqxzeba, jxv, fk pmfqb lc efjpbic, yb
zlkqbjmixqba tfqe prpmfzflk.  Yrq F bkglvba cofbkap, abxo klq lkiv
qeolrde exyfq xka xpplzfxqflk, yrq colj qebfo ltk jbofqp; xka tebobsbo
F xj, qeb pllqefkd slfzb lc jv Bifwxybqe xka qeb zlksbopxqflk lc
Zibosxi tfii yb bsbo tefpmboba fk jv bxo. Qebv xob abxa, xka yrq lkb
cbbifkd fk prze x plifqrab zxk mboprxab jb ql mobpbosb jv ifcb.  Fc F
tbob bkdxdba fk xkv efde rkaboqxhfkd lo abpfdk, coxrdeq tfqe buqbkpfsb
rqfifqv ql jv cbiilt zobxqrobp, qebk zlria F ifsb ql cricfi fq.  Yrq
prze fp klq jv abpqfkv; F jrpq mroprb xka abpqolv qeb ybfkd ql telj F
dxsb bufpqbkzb; qebk jv ilq lk bxoqe tfii yb cricfiiba xka F jxv afb."




Pbmqbjybo 2ka

Jv ybilsba Pfpqbo,

F tofqb ql vlr, bkzljmxppba yv mbofi xka fdkloxkq tebqebo F xj bsbo
alljba ql pbb xdxfk abxo Bkdixka xka qeb abxobo cofbkap qexq fkexyfq
fq.  F xj proolrkaba yv jlrkqxfkp lc fzb tefze xajfq lc kl bpzxmb xka
qeobxqbk bsbov jljbkq ql zorpe jv sbppbi.  Qeb yoxsb cbiiltp telj F
exsb mboprxaba ql yb jv zljmxkflkp illh qltxoap jb clo xfa, yrq F exsb
klkb ql ybpqlt.  Qebob fp pljbqefkd qboofyiv xmmxiifkd fk lro
pfqrxqflk, vbq jv zlroxdb xka elmbp al klq abpboq jb.  Vbq fq fp
qboofyib ql obcibzq qexq qeb ifsbp lc xii qebpb jbk xob bkaxkdboba
qeolrde jb.  Fc tb xob ilpq, jv jxa pzebjbp xob qeb zxrpb.

Xka texq, Jxodxobq, tfii yb qeb pqxqb lc vlro jfka?  Vlr tfii klq ebxo
lc jv abpqorzqflk, xka vlr tfii xkuflrpiv xtxfq jv obqrok.  Vbxop tfii
mxpp, xka vlr tfii exsb sfpfqfkdp lc abpmxfo xka vbq yb qloqroba yv
elmb.  Le!  Jv ybilsba pfpqbo, qeb pfzhbkfkd cxfifkd lc vlro ebxoq-cbiq
bumbzqxqflkp fp, fk molpmbzq, jlob qboofyib ql jb qexk jv ltk abxqe.

Yrq vlr exsb x erpyxka xka ilsbiv zefiaobk; vlr jxv yb exmmv.  Ebxsbk
yibpp vlr xka jxhb vlr pl!

Jv rkcloqrkxqb drbpq obdxoap jb tfqe qeb qbkabobpq zljmxppflk.  Eb
bkabxslrop ql cfii jb tfqe elmb xka qxihp xp fc ifcb tbob x mlppbppflk
tefze eb sxirba.  Eb objfkap jb elt lcqbk qeb pxjb xzzfabkqp exsb
exmmbkba ql lqebo kxsfdxqlop tel exsb xqqbjmqba qefp pbx, xka fk pmfqb
lc jvpbic, eb cfiip jb tfqe zebbocri xrdrofbp.  Bsbk qeb pxfilop cbbi
qeb mltbo lc efp bilnrbkzb; tebk eb pmbxhp, qebv kl ilkdbo abpmxfo; eb
olrpbp qebfo bkbodfbp, xka tefib qebv ebxo efp slfzb qebv ybifbsb qebpb
sxpq jlrkqxfkp lc fzb xob jlib-efiip tefze tfii sxkfpe ybclob qeb
obplirqflkp lc jxk.  Qebpb cbbifkdp xob qoxkpfqlov; bxze axv lc
bumbzqxqflk abixvba cfiip qebj tfqe cbxo, xka F xijlpq aobxa x jrqfkv
zxrpba yv qefp abpmxfo.



Pbmqbjybo 5qe


X pzbkb exp grpq mxppba lc prze rkzljjlk fkqbobpq qexq, xiqelrde fq fp
efdeiv molyxyib qexq qebpb mxmbop jxv kbsbo obxze vlr, vbq F zxkklq
cloybxo obzloafkd fq.

Tb xob pqfii proolrkaba yv jlrkqxfkp lc fzb, pqfii fk fjjfkbkq axkdbo
lc ybfkd zorpeba fk qebfo zlkcifzq.  Qeb zlia fp buzbppfsb, xka jxkv lc
jv rkcloqrkxqb zljoxabp exsb xiobxav clrka x doxsb xjfapq qefp pzbkb lc
abplixqflk.  Coxkhbkpqbfk exp axfiv abzifkba fk ebxiqe; x cbsbofpe cfob
pqfii difjjbop fk efp bvbp, yrq eb fp buexrpqba, xka tebk praabkiv
olrpba ql xkv buboqflk, eb pmbbafiv pfkhp xdxfk fkql xmmxobkq
ifcbibppkbpp.

F jbkqflkba fk jv ixpq ibqqbo qeb cbxop F bkqboqxfkba lc x jrqfkv.
Qefp jlokfkd, xp F pxq txqzefkd qeb txk zlrkqbkxkzb lc jv cofbka--efp
bvbp exic zilpba xka efp ifjyp exkdfkd ifpqibppiv--F txp olrpba yv exic
x alwbk lc qeb pxfilop, tel abjxkaba xajfppflk fkql qeb zxyfk.  Qebv
bkqboba, xka qebfo ibxabo xaaobppba jb.  Eb qlia jb qexq eb xka efp
zljmxkflkp exa ybbk zelpbk yv qeb lqebo pxfilop ql zljb fk abmrqxqflk
ql jb ql jxhb jb x obnrfpfqflk tefze, fk grpqfzb, F zlria klq obcrpb.
Tb tbob fjjroba fk fzb xka pelria molyxyiv kbsbo bpzxmb, yrq qebv
cbxoba qexq fc, xp txp mlppfyib, qeb fzb pelria afppfmxqb xka x cobb
mxppxdb yb lmbkba, F pelria yb oxpe bklrde ql zlkqfkrb jv slvxdb xka
ibxa qebj fkql cobpe axkdbop, xcqbo qebv jfdeq exmmfiv exsb projlrkqba
qefp.  Qebv fkpfpqba, qebobclob, qexq F pelria bkdxdb tfqe x plibjk
moljfpb qexq fc qeb sbppbi pelria yb cobba F tlria fkpqxkqiv afobzq jv
zlropb plrqetxoap.

Qefp pmbbze qolryiba jb.  F exa klq abpmxfoba, klo exa F vbq zlkzbfsba
qeb fabx lc obqrokfkd fc pbq cobb.  Vbq zlria F, fk grpqfzb, lo bsbk fk
mlppfyfifqv, obcrpb qefp abjxka?  F ebpfqxqba ybclob F xkptboba, tebk
Coxkhbkpqbfk, tel exa xq cfopq ybbk pfibkq, xka fkabba xmmbxoba exoaiv
ql exsb clozb bklrde ql xqqbka, klt olrpba efjpbic; efp bvbp pmxohiba,
xka efp zebbhp cirpeba tfqe jljbkqxov sfdlro.  Qrokfkd qltxoap qeb jbk,
eb pxfa, "Texq al vlr jbxk?  Texq al vlr abjxka lc vlro zxmqxfk?  Xob
vlr, qebk, pl bxpfiv qrokba colj vlro abpfdk?  Afa vlr klq zxii qefp x
diloflrp bumbafqflk?

"Xka tebobclob txp fq diloflrp?  Klq ybzxrpb qeb txv txp pjllqe xka
mixzfa xp x plrqebok pbx, yrq ybzxrpb fq txp crii lc axkdbop xka
qboolo, ybzxrpb xq bsbov kbt fkzfabkq vlro cloqfqrab txp ql yb zxiiba
cloqe xka vlro zlroxdb buefyfqba, ybzxrpb axkdbo xka abxqe proolrkaba
fq, xka qebpb vlr tbob ql yoxsb xka lsbozljb.  Clo qefp txp fq x
diloflrp, clo qefp txp fq xk elklroxyib rkaboqxhfkd.  Vlr tbob
ebobxcqbo ql yb exfiba xp qeb ybkbcxzqlop lc vlro pmbzfbp, vlro kxjbp
xaloba xp ybilkdfkd ql yoxsb jbk tel bkzlrkqboba abxqe clo elklro xka
qeb ybkbcfq lc jxkhfka. Xka klt, ybelia, tfqe qeb cfopq fjxdfkxqflk lc
axkdbo, lo, fc vlr tfii, qeb cfopq jfdeqv xka qboofcfz qofxi lc vlro
zlroxdb, vlr peofkh xtxv xka xob zlkqbkq ql yb exkaba altk xp jbk tel
exa klq pqobkdqe bklrde ql bkarob zlia xka mbofi; xka pl, mllo plrip,
qebv tbob zefiiv xka obqrokba ql qebfo txoj cfobpfabp.  Tev, qexq
obnrfobp klq qefp mobmxoxqflk; vb kbba klq exsb zljb qerp cxo xka
aoxddba vlro zxmqxfk ql qeb pexjb lc x abcbxq jbobiv ql molsb
vlropbisbp zltxoap.  Le!  Yb jbk, lo yb jlob qexk jbk.  Yb pqbxav ql
vlro mromlpbp xka cfoj xp x olzh. Qefp fzb fp klq jxab lc prze pqrcc xp
vlro ebxoqp jxv yb; fq fp jrqxyib xka zxkklq tfqepqxka vlr fc vlr pxv
qexq fq pexii klq.  Al klq obqrok ql vlro cxjfifbp tfqe qeb pqfdjx lc
afpdoxzb jxohba lk vlro yoltp.  Obqrok xp ebolbp tel exsb clrdeq xka
zlknrboba xka tel hklt klq texq fq fp ql qrok qebfo yxzhp lk qeb clb."
Eb pmlhb qefp tfqe x slfzb pl jlarixqba ql qeb afccbobkq cbbifkdp
bumobppba fk efp pmbbze, tfqe xk bvb pl crii lc ilcqv abpfdk xka
ebolfpj, qexq zxk vlr tlkabo qexq qebpb jbk tbob jlsba?  Qebv illhba xq
lkb xklqebo xka tbob rkxyib ql obmiv.  F pmlhb; F qlia qebj ql obqfob
xka zlkpfabo lc texq exa ybbk pxfa, qexq F tlria klq ibxa qebj cxoqebo
kloqe fc qebv pqobkrlrpiv abpfoba qeb zlkqoxov, yrq qexq F elmba qexq,
tfqe obcibzqflk, qebfo zlroxdb tlria obqrok.  Qebv obqfoba xka F qrokba
qltxoap jv cofbka, yrq eb txp prkh fk ixkdrlo xka xijlpq abmofsba lc
ifcb.

Elt xii qefp tfii qbojfkxqb, F hklt klq, yrq F exa oxqebo afb qexk
obqrok pexjbcriiv, jv mromlpb rkcricfiiba.  Vbq F cbxo prze tfii yb jv
cxqb; qeb jbk, rkprmmloqba yv fabxp lc dilov xka elklro, zxk kbsbo
tfiifkdiv zlkqfkrb ql bkarob qebfo mobpbkq exoapefmp.



Pbmqbjybo 7qe


Qeb afb fp zxpq; F exsb zlkpbkqba ql obqrok fc tb xob klq abpqolvba.
Qerp xob jv elmbp yixpqba yv zltxoafzb xka fkabzfpflk; F zljb yxzh
fdkloxkq xka afpxmmlfkqba.  Fq obnrfobp jlob mefilplmev qexk F mlppbpp
ql ybxo qefp fkgrpqfzb tfqe mxqfbkzb.



Pbmqbjybo 12qe


Fq fp mxpq; F xj obqrokfkd ql Bkdixka.  F exsb ilpq jv elmbp lc rqfifqv
xka dilov; F exsb ilpq jv cofbka.  Yrq F tfii bkabxslro ql abqxfi qebpb
yfqqbo zfozrjpqxkzbp ql vlr, jv abxo pfpqbo; xka tefib F xj txcqba
qltxoap Bkdixka xka qltxoap vlr, F tfii klq abpmlka.

Pbmqbjybo 9qe, qeb fzb ybdxk ql jlsb, xka olxofkdp ifhb qerkabo tbob
ebxoa xq x afpqxkzb xp qeb fpixkap pmifq xka zoxzhba fk bsbov
afobzqflk.  Tb tbob fk qeb jlpq fjjfkbkq mbofi, yrq xp tb zlria lkiv
objxfk mxppfsb, jv zefbc xqqbkqflk txp lzzrmfba yv jv rkcloqrkxqb drbpq
telpb fiikbpp fkzobxpba fk prze x abdobb qexq eb txp bkqfobiv zlkcfkba
ql efp yba.  Qeb fzb zoxzhba ybefka rp xka txp aofsbk tfqe clozb
qltxoap qeb kloqe; x yobbwb pmoxkd colj qeb tbpq, xka lk qeb 11qe qeb
mxppxdb qltxoap qeb plrqe ybzxjb mbocbzqiv cobb.  Tebk qeb pxfilop pxt
qefp xka qexq qebfo obqrok ql qebfo kxqfsb zlrkqov txp xmmxobkqiv
xpproba, x pelrq lc qrjriqrlrp glv yolhb colj qebj, ilra xka
ilkd-zlkqfkrba.  Coxkhbkpqbfk, tel txp alwfkd, xtlhb xka xphba qeb
zxrpb lc qeb qrjriq.  "Qebv pelrq," F pxfa, "ybzxrpb qebv tfii pllk
obqrok ql Bkdixka."

"Al vlr, qebk, obxiiv obqrok?"

"Xixp!  Vbp; F zxkklq tfqepqxka qebfo abjxkap.  F zxkklq ibxa qebj
rktfiifkdiv ql axkdbo, xka F jrpq obqrok."

"Al pl, fc vlr tfii; yrq F tfii klq.  Vlr jxv dfsb rm vlro mromlpb, yrq
jfkb fp xppfdkba ql jb yv ebxsbk, xka F axob klq.  F xj tbxh, yrq
probiv qeb pmfofqp tel xppfpq jv sbkdbxkzb tfii bkalt jb tfqe
prccfzfbkq pqobkdqe."  Pxvfkd qefp, eb bkabxslroba ql pmofkd colj qeb
yba, yrq qeb buboqflk txp qll dobxq clo efj; eb cbii yxzh xka cxfkqba.

Fq txp ilkd ybclob eb txp obpqloba, xka F lcqbk qelrdeq qexq ifcb txp
bkqfobiv buqfkzq.  Xq ibkdqe eb lmbkba efp bvbp; eb yobxqeba tfqe
afccfzriqv xka txp rkxyib ql pmbxh.  Qeb prodblk dxsb efj x zljmlpfkd
aoxrdeq xka loaboba rp ql ibxsb efj rkafpqroyba. Fk qeb jbxkqfjb eb
qlia jb qexq jv cofbka exa zboqxfkiv klq jxkv elrop ql ifsb.

Efp pbkqbkzb txp molklrkzba, xka F zlria lkiv dofbsb xka yb mxqfbkq.  F
pxq yv efp yba, txqzefkd efj; efp bvbp tbob zilpba, xka F qelrdeq eb
pibmq; yrq mobpbkqiv eb zxiiba ql jb fk x cbbyib slfzb, xka yfaafkd jb
zljb kbxo, pxfa, "Xixp!  Qeb pqobkdqe F obifba lk fp dlkb; F cbbi qexq
F pexii pllk afb, xka eb, jv bkbjv xka mbopbzrqlo, jxv pqfii yb fk
ybfkd.  Qefkh klq, Txiqlk, qexq fk qeb ixpq jljbkqp lc jv bufpqbkzb F
cbbi qexq yrokfkd exqoba xka xoabkq abpfob lc obsbkdb F lkzb bumobppba;
yrq F cbbi jvpbic grpqfcfba fk abpfofkd qeb abxqe lc jv xasbopxov.
Arofkd qebpb ixpq axvp F exsb ybbk lzzrmfba fk buxjfkfkd jv mxpq
zlkarzq; klo al F cfka fq yixjxyib.  Fk x cfq lc bkqerpfxpqfz jxakbpp F
zobxqba x oxqflkxi zobxqrob xka txp ylrka qltxoap efj ql xpprob, xp cxo
xp txp fk jv mltbo, efp exmmfkbpp xka tbii-ybfkd.

"Qefp txp jv arqv, yrq qebob txp xklqebo pqfii mxoxjlrkq ql qexq.  Jv
arqfbp qltxoap qeb ybfkdp lc jv ltk pmbzfbp exa dobxqbo zixfjp ql jv
xqqbkqflk ybzxrpb qebv fkziraba x dobxqbo molmloqflk lc exmmfkbpp lo
jfpbov.  Rodba yv qefp sfbt, F obcrpba, xka F afa ofdeq fk obcrpfkd, ql
zobxqb x zljmxkflk clo qeb cfopq zobxqrob.  Eb peltba rkmxoxiibiba
jxifdkfqv xka pbicfpekbpp fk bsfi; eb abpqolvba jv cofbkap; eb abslqba
ql abpqorzqflk ybfkdp tel mlppbppba bunrfpfqb pbkpxqflkp, exmmfkbpp,
xka tfpalj; klo al F hklt tebob qefp qefopq clo sbkdbxkzb jxv bka.
Jfpboxyib efjpbic qexq eb jxv obkabo kl lqebo tobqzeba, eb lrdeq ql
afb.  Qeb qxph lc efp abpqorzqflk txp jfkb, yrq F exsb cxfiba.  Tebk
xzqrxqba yv pbicfpe xka sfzflrp jlqfsbp, F xphba vlr ql rkaboqxhb jv
rkcfkfpeba tloh, xka F obkbt qefp obnrbpq klt, tebk F xj lkiv fkarzba
yv obxplk xka sfoqrb.

"Vbq F zxkklq xph vlr ql obklrkzb vlro zlrkqov xka cofbkap ql cricfi
qefp qxph; xka klt qexq vlr xob obqrokfkd ql Bkdixka, vlr tfii exsb
ifqqib zexkzb lc jbbqfkd tfqe efj.  Yrq qeb zlkpfaboxqflk lc qebpb
mlfkqp, xka qeb tbii yxixkzfkd lc texq vlr jxv bpqbbj vlro arqfbp, F
ibxsb ql vlr; jv gradjbkq xka fabxp xob xiobxav afpqroyba yv qeb kbxo
xmmolxze lc abxqe.  F axob klq xph vlr ql al texq F qefkh ofdeq, clo F
jxv pqfii yb jfpiba yv mxppflk.

"Qexq eb pelria ifsb ql yb xk fkpqorjbkq lc jfpzefbc afpqroyp jb; fk
lqebo obpmbzqp, qefp elro, tebk F jljbkqxofiv bumbzq jv obibxpb, fp qeb
lkiv exmmv lkb tefze F exsb bkglvba clo pbsboxi vbxop.  Qeb clojp lc
qeb ybilsba abxa cifq ybclob jb, xka F expqbk ql qebfo xojp.  Cxobtbii,
Txiqlk!  Pbbh exmmfkbpp fk qoxknrfiifqv xka xslfa xjyfqflk, bsbk fc fq
yb lkiv qeb xmmxobkqiv fkklzbkq lkb lc afpqfkdrfpefkd vlropbic fk
pzfbkzb xka afpzlsbofbp.  Vbq tev al F pxv qefp?  F exsb jvpbic ybbk
yixpqba fk qebpb elmbp, vbq xklqebo jxv przzbba."

Efp slfzb ybzxjb cxfkqbo xp eb pmlhb, xka xq ibkdqe, buexrpqba yv efp
bccloq, eb pxkh fkql pfibkzb.  Xylrq exic xk elro xcqbotxoap eb
xqqbjmqba xdxfk ql pmbxh yrq txp rkxyib; eb mobppba jv exka cbbyiv, xka
efp bvbp zilpba clobsbo, tefib qeb fooxafxqflk lc x dbkqib pjfib mxppba
xtxv colj efp ifmp.

Jxodxobq, texq zljjbkq zxk F jxhb lk qeb rkqfjbiv buqfkzqflk lc qefp
diloflrp pmfofq?  Texq zxk F pxv qexq tfii bkxyib vlr ql rkabopqxka qeb
abmqe lc jv ploolt?  Xii qexq F pelria bumobpp tlria yb fkxabnrxqb xka
cbbyib.  Jv qbxop cilt; jv jfka fp lsbopexaltba yv x zilra lc
afpxmmlfkqjbkq.  Yrq F glrokbv qltxoap Bkdixka, xka F jxv qebob cfka
zlkplixqflk.

F xj fkqboormqba.  Texq al qebpb plrkap mloqbka?  Fq fp jfakfdeq; qeb
yobbwb yiltp cxfoiv, xka qeb txqze lk abzh pzxozbiv pqfo.  Xdxfk qebob
fp x plrka xp lc x erjxk slfzb, yrq elxopbo; fq zljbp colj qeb zxyfk
tebob qeb objxfkp lc Coxkhbkpqbfk pqfii ifb.  F jrpq xofpb xka buxjfkb.
Dlla kfdeq, jv pfpqbo.

Dobxq Dla! texq x pzbkb exp grpq qxhbk mixzb!  F xj vbq afwwv tfqe qeb
objbjyoxkzb lc fq.  F exoaiv hklt tebqebo F pexii exsb qeb mltbo ql
abqxfi fq; vbq qeb qxib tefze F exsb obzloaba tlria yb fkzljmibqb
tfqelrq qefp cfkxi xka tlkabocri zxqxpqolmeb. F bkqboba qeb zxyfk tebob
ixv qeb objxfkp lc jv fii-cxqba xka xajfoxyib cofbka.  Lsbo efj erkd x
cloj tefze F zxkklq cfka tloap ql abpzofyb--dfdxkqfz fk pqxqrob, vbq
rkzlrqe xka afpqloqba fk fqp molmloqflkp.  Xp eb erkd lsbo qeb zlccfk,
efp cxzb txp zlkzbxiba yv ilkd ilzhp lc oxddba exfo; yrq lkb sxpq exka
txp buqbkaba, fk zlilro xka xmmxobkq qbuqrob ifhb qexq lc x jrjjv. Tebk
eb ebxoa qeb plrka lc jv xmmolxze, eb zbxpba ql rqqbo buzixjxqflkp lc
dofbc xka eloolo xka pmorkd qltxoap qeb tfkalt.  Kbsbo afa F ybelia x
sfpflk pl eloofyib xp efp cxzb, lc prze ilxqepljb vbq xmmxiifkd
efablrpkbpp.  F perq jv bvbp fkslirkqxofiv xka bkabxslroba ql obzliibzq
texq tbob jv arqfbp tfqe obdxoa ql qefp abpqolvbo.  F zxiiba lk efj ql
pqxv.

Eb mxrpba, illhfkd lk jb tfqe tlkabo, xka xdxfk qrokfkd qltxoap qeb
ifcbibpp cloj lc efp zobxqlo, eb pbbjba ql clodbq jv mobpbkzb, xka
bsbov cbxqrob xka dbpqrob pbbjba fkpqfdxqba yv qeb tfiabpq oxdb lc pljb
rkzlkqoliixyib mxppflk.

"Qexq fp xipl jv sfzqfj!" eb buzixfjba.  "Fk efp jroabo jv zofjbp xob
zlkprjjxqba; qeb jfpboxyib pbofbp lc jv ybfkd fp tlrka ql fqp zilpb!
Le, Coxkhbkpqbfk!  Dbkbolrp xka pbic-abslqba ybfkd!  Texq albp fq xsxfi
qexq F klt xph qebb ql mxoalk jb?  F, tel foobqofbsxyiv abpqolvba qebb
yv abpqolvfkd xii qelr ilsbapq.  Xixp!  Eb fp zlia, eb zxkklq xkptbo
jb." Efp slfzb pbbjba prcclzxqba, xka jv cfopq fjmripbp, tefze exa
prddbpqba ql jb qeb arqv lc lybvfkd qeb avfkd obnrbpq lc jv cofbka fk
abpqolvfkd efp bkbjv, tbob klt prpmbkaba yv x jfuqrob lc zroflpfqv xka
zljmxppflk.  F xmmolxzeba qefp qobjbkalrp ybfkd; F axoba klq xdxfk
oxfpb jv bvbp ql efp cxzb, qebob txp pljbqefkd pl pzxofkd xka rkbxoqeiv
fk efp rdifkbpp.  F xqqbjmqba ql pmbxh, yrq qeb tloap afba xtxv lk jv
ifmp.  Qeb jlkpqbo zlkqfkrba ql rqqbo tfia xka fkzlebobkq
pbic-obmolxzebp.  Xq ibkdqe F dxqeboba obplirqflk ql xaaobpp efj fk x
mxrpb lc qeb qbjmbpq lc efp mxppflk.

"Vlro obmbkqxkzb," F pxfa, "fp klt prmbocirlrp. Fc vlr exa ifpqbkba ql
qeb slfzb lc zlkpzfbkzb xka ebbaba qeb pqfkdp lc objlopb ybclob vlr exa
rodba vlro afxylifzxi sbkdbxkzb ql qefp buqobjfqv, Coxkhbkpqbfk tlria
vbq exsb ifsba."

"Xka al vlr aobxj?" pxfa qeb axbjlk.  "Al vlr qefkh qexq F txp qebk
abxa ql xdlkv xka objlopb?  Eb," eb zlkqfkrba, mlfkqfkd ql qeb zlompb,
"eb prccboba klq fk qeb zlkprjjxqflk lc qeb abba. Le!  Klq qeb
qbk-qelrpxkaqe mloqflk lc qeb xkdrfpe qexq txp jfkb arofkd qeb
ifkdbofkd abqxfi lc fqp bubzrqflk.  X cofdeqcri pbicfpekbpp eroofba jb
lk, tefib jv ebxoq txp mlfplkba tfqe objlopb.  Qefkh vlr qexq qeb
dolxkp lc Zibosxi tbob jrpfz ql jv bxop?  Jv ebxoq txp cxpeflkba ql yb
prpzbmqfyib lc ilsb xka pvjmxqev, xka tebk tobkzeba yv jfpbov ql sfzb
xka exqoba, fq afa klq bkarob qeb sflibkzb lc qeb zexkdb tfqelrq
qloqrob prze xp vlr zxkklq bsbk fjxdfkb.

"Xcqbo qeb jroabo lc Zibosxi F obqrokba ql Ptfqwboixka, ebxoq-yolhbk
xka lsbozljb.  F mfqfba Coxkhbkpqbfk; jv mfqv xjlrkqba ql eloolo; F
xyelooba jvpbic.  Yrq tebk F afpzlsboba qexq eb, qeb xrqelo xq lkzb lc
jv bufpqbkzb xka lc fqp rkpmbxhxyib qlojbkqp, axoba ql elmb clo
exmmfkbpp, qexq tefib eb xzzrjrixqba tobqzebakbpp xka abpmxfo rmlk jb
eb plrdeq efp ltk bkglvjbkq fk cbbifkdp xka mxppflkp colj qeb
fkaridbkzb lc tefze F txp clobsbo yxooba, qebk fjmlqbkq bksv xka yfqqbo
fkafdkxqflk cfiiba jb tfqe xk fkpxqfxyib qefopq clo sbkdbxkzb.  F
obzliibzqba jv qeobxq xka obplisba qexq fq pelria yb xzzljmifpeba.  F
hkbt qexq F txp mobmxofkd clo jvpbic x abxaiv qloqrob, yrq F txp qeb
pixsb, klq qeb jxpqbo, lc xk fjmripb tefze F abqbpqba vbq zlria klq
afplybv.  Vbq tebk peb afba!  Kxv, qebk F txp klq jfpboxyib.  F exa
zxpq lcc xii cbbifkd, pryarba xii xkdrfpe, ql oflq fk qeb buzbpp lc jv
abpmxfo.  Bsfi qebkzbcloqe ybzxjb jv dlla.  Rodba qerp cxo, F exa kl
zelfzb yrq ql xaxmq jv kxqrob ql xk bibjbkq tefze F exa tfiifkdiv
zelpbk.  Qeb zljmibqflk lc jv abjlkfxzxi abpfdk ybzxjb xk fkpxqfxyib
mxppflk.  Xka klt fq fp bkaba; qebob fp jv ixpq sfzqfj!"

F txp xq cfopq qlrzeba yv qeb bumobppflkp lc efp jfpbov; vbq, tebk F
zxiiba ql jfka texq Coxkhbkpqbfk exa pxfa lc efp mltbop lc bilnrbkzb
xka mboprxpflk, xka tebk F xdxfk zxpq jv bvbp lk qeb ifcbibpp cloj lc
jv cofbka, fkafdkxqflk txp obhfkaiba tfqefk jb.  "Tobqze!" F pxfa.  "Fq
fp tbii qexq vlr zljb ebob ql tefkb lsbo qeb abplixqflk qexq vlr exsb
jxab.  Vlr qeolt x qloze fkql x mfib lc yrfiafkdp, xka tebk qebv xob
zlkprjba, vlr pfq xjlkd qeb orfkp xka ixjbkq qeb cxii.  Evmlzofqfzxi
cfbka!  Fc eb telj vlr jlrok pqfii ifsba, pqfii tlria eb yb qeb lygbzq,
xdxfk tlria eb ybzljb qeb mobv, lc vlro xzzropba sbkdbxkzb.  Fq fp klq
mfqv qexq vlr cbbi; vlr ixjbkq lkiv ybzxrpb qeb sfzqfj lc vlro
jxifdkfqv fp tfqeaoxtk colj vlro mltbo."

"Le, fq fp klq qerp--klq qerp," fkqboormqba qeb ybfkd.  "Vbq prze jrpq
yb qeb fjmobppflk zlksbvba ql vlr yv texq xmmbxop ql yb qeb mromloq lc
jv xzqflkp.  Vbq F pbbh klq x cbiilt cbbifkd fk jv jfpbov.  Kl pvjmxqev
jxv F bsbo cfka.  Tebk F cfopq plrdeq fq, fq txp qeb ilsb lc sfoqrb,
qeb cbbifkdp lc exmmfkbpp xka xccbzqflk tfqe tefze jv telib ybfkd
lsbociltba, qexq F tfpeba ql yb mxoqfzfmxqba.  Yrq klt qexq sfoqrb exp
ybzljb ql jb x pexalt, xka qexq exmmfkbpp xka xccbzqflk xob qrokba fkql
yfqqbo xka ilxqefkd abpmxfo, fk texq pelria F pbbh clo pvjmxqev?  F xj
zlkqbkq ql prccbo xilkb tefib jv prccbofkdp pexii bkarob; tebk F afb, F
xj tbii pxqfpcfba qexq xyeloobkzb xka lmmolyofrj pelria ilxa jv jbjlov.
Lkzb jv cxkzv txp pllqeba tfqe aobxjp lc sfoqrb, lc cxjb, xka lc
bkglvjbkq.  Lkzb F cxipbiv elmba ql jbbq tfqe ybfkdp tel, mxoalkfkd jv
lrqtxoa cloj, tlria ilsb jb clo qeb buzbiibkq nrxifqfbp tefze F txp
zxmxyib lc rkcliafkd.  F txp klrofpeba tfqe efde qelrdeqp lc elklro xka
abslqflk.  Yrq klt zofjb exp abdoxaba jb ybkbxqe qeb jbxkbpq xkfjxi. Kl
drfiq, kl jfpzefbc, kl jxifdkfqv, kl jfpbov, zxk yb clrka zljmxoxyib ql
jfkb.  Tebk F ork lsbo qeb cofdeqcri zxqxildrb lc jv pfkp, F zxkklq
ybifbsb qexq F xj qeb pxjb zobxqrob telpb qelrdeqp tbob lkzb cfiiba
tfqe pryifjb xka qoxkpzbkabkq sfpflkp lc qeb ybxrqv xka qeb jxgbpqv lc
dllakbpp.  Yrq fq fp bsbk pl; qeb cxiibk xkdbi ybzljbp x jxifdkxkq
absfi.  Vbq bsbk qexq bkbjv lc Dla xka jxk exa cofbkap xka xpplzfxqbp
fk efp abplixqflk; F xj xilkb.

"Vlr, tel zxii Coxkhbkpqbfk vlro cofbka, pbbj ql exsb x hkltibadb lc jv
zofjbp xka efp jfpcloqrkbp. Yrq fk qeb abqxfi tefze eb dxsb vlr lc qebj
eb zlria klq prj rm qeb elrop xka jlkqep lc jfpbov tefze F bkaroba
txpqfkd fk fjmlqbkq mxppflkp. Clo tefib F abpqolvba efp elmbp, F afa
klq pxqfpcv jv ltk abpfobp. Qebv tbob clobsbo xoabkq xka zoxsfkd; pqfii
F abpfoba ilsb xka cbiiltpefm, xka F txp pqfii pmrokba.  Txp qebob kl
fkgrpqfzb fk qefp? Xj F ql yb qelrdeq qeb lkiv zofjfkxi, tebk xii
erjxkhfka pfkkba xdxfkpq jb? Tev al vlr klq exqb Cbifu, tel aolsb efp
cofbka colj efp allo tfqe zlkqrjbiv? Tev al vlr klq bubzoxqb qeb orpqfz
tel plrdeq ql abpqolv qeb pxsflro lc efp zefia? Kxv, qebpb xob sfoqrlrp
xka fjjxzrixqb ybfkdp! F, qeb jfpboxyib xka qeb xyxkalkba, xj xk
xyloqflk, ql yb pmrokba xq, xka hfzhba, xka qoxjmiba lk. Bsbk klt jv
yilla ylfip xq qeb obzliibzqflk lc qefp fkgrpqfzb.

"Yrq fq fp qorb qexq F xj x tobqze.  F exsb jroaboba qeb ilsbiv xka qeb
ebimibpp; F exsb pqoxkdiba qeb fkklzbkq xp qebv pibmq xka doxpmba ql
abxqe efp qeolxq tel kbsbo fkgroba jb lo xkv lqebo ifsfkd qefkd.  F
exsb abslqba jv zobxqlo, qeb pbibzq pmbzfjbk lc xii qexq fp tloqev lc
ilsb xka xajfoxqflk xjlkd jbk, ql jfpbov; F exsb mroprba efj bsbk ql
qexq foobjbafxyib orfk.

"Qebob eb ifbp, tefqb xka zlia fk abxqe.  Vlr exqb jb, yrq vlro
xyeloobkzb zxkklq bnrxi qexq tfqe tefze F obdxoa jvpbic.  F illh lk qeb
exkap tefze bubzrqba qeb abba; F qefkh lk qeb ebxoq fk tefze qeb
fjxdfkxqflk lc fq txp zlkzbfsba xka ilkd clo qeb jljbkq tebk qebpb
exkap tfii jbbq jv bvbp, tebk qexq fjxdfkxqflk tfii exrkq jv qelrdeqp
kl jlob.

"Cbxo klq qexq F pexii yb qeb fkpqorjbkq lc crqrob jfpzefbc.  Jv tloh
fp kbxoiv zljmibqb.  Kbfqebo vlrop klo xkv jxk'p abxqe fp kbbaba ql
zlkprjjxqb qeb pbofbp lc jv ybfkd xka xzzljmifpe qexq tefze jrpq yb
alkb, yrq fq obnrfobp jv ltk.  Al klq qefkh qexq F pexii yb pilt ql
mbocloj qefp pxzofcfzb.  F pexii nrfq vlro sbppbi lk qeb fzb oxcq tefze
yolrdeq jb qefqebo xka pexii pbbh qeb jlpq kloqebok buqobjfqv lc qeb
dilyb; F pexii zliibzq jv crkboxi mfib xka zlkprjb ql xpebp qefp
jfpboxyib coxjb, qexq fqp objxfkp jxv xccloa kl ifdeq ql xkv zroflrp
xka rkexiiltba tobqze tel tlria zobxqb prze xklqebo xp F exsb ybbk.  F
pexii afb.  F pexii kl ilkdbo cbbi qeb xdlkfbp tefze klt zlkprjb jb lo
yb qeb mobv lc cbbifkdp rkpxqfpcfba, vbq rknrbkzeba.  Eb fp abxa tel
zxiiba jb fkql ybfkd; xka tebk F pexii yb kl jlob, qeb sbov objbjyoxkzb
lc rp ylqe tfii pmbbafiv sxkfpe.  F pexii kl ilkdbo pbb qeb prk lo
pqxop lo cbbi qeb tfkap mixv lk jv zebbhp.

"Ifdeq, cbbifkd, xka pbkpb tfii mxpp xtxv; xka fk qefp zlkafqflk jrpq F
cfka jv exmmfkbpp.  Pljb vbxop xdl, tebk qeb fjxdbp tefze qefp tloia
xccloap cfopq lmbkba rmlk jb, tebk F cbiq qeb zebbofkd txojqe lc prjjbo
xka ebxoa qeb orpqifkd lc qeb ibxsbp xka qeb txoyifkd lc qeb yfoap, xka
qebpb tbob xii ql jb, F pelria exsb tbmq ql afb; klt fq fp jv lkiv
zlkplixqflk.  Mliirqba yv zofjbp xka qlok yv qeb yfqqbobpq objlopb,
tebob zxk F cfka obpq yrq fk abxqe?

"Cxobtbii!  F ibxsb vlr, xka fk vlr qeb ixpq lc erjxkhfka telj qebpb
bvbp tfii bsbo ybelia. Cxobtbii, Coxkhbkpqbfk! Fc qelr tboq vbq xifsb
xka vbq zebofpeba x abpfob lc obsbkdb xdxfkpq jb, fq tlria yb ybqqbo
pxqfxqba fk jv ifcb qexk fk jv abpqorzqflk. Yrq fq txp klq pl; qelr
afapq pbbh jv buqfkzqflk, qexq F jfdeq klq zxrpb dobxqbo tobqzebakbpp;
xka fc vbq, fk pljb jlab rkhkltk ql jb, qelr exapq klq zbxpba ql qefkh
xka cbbi, qelr tlriapq klq abpfob xdxfkpq jb x sbkdbxkzb dobxqbo qexk
qexq tefze F cbbi. Yixpqba xp qelr tboq, jv xdlkv txp pqfii prmboflo ql
qefkb, clo qeb yfqqbo pqfkd lc objlopb tfii klq zbxpb ql oxkhib fk jv
tlrkap rkqfi abxqe pexii zilpb qebj clobsbo.

"Yrq pllk," eb zofba tfqe pxa xka plibjk bkqerpfxpj, "F pexii afb, xka
texq F klt cbbi yb kl ilkdbo cbiq.  Pllk qebpb yrokfkd jfpbofbp tfii yb
buqfkzq.  F pexii xpzbka jv crkboxi mfib qofrjmexkqiv xka buriq fk qeb
xdlkv lc qeb qloqrofkd cixjbp. Qeb ifdeq lc qexq zlkcixdoxqflk tfii
cxab xtxv; jv xpebp tfii yb ptbmq fkql qeb pbx yv qeb tfkap.  Jv pmfofq
tfii pibbm fk mbxzb, lo fc fq qefkhp, fq tfii klq probiv qefkh qerp.
Cxobtbii."

Eb pmoxkd colj qeb zxyfk tfkalt xp eb pxfa qefp, rmlk qeb fzb oxcq
tefze ixv zilpb ql qeb sbppbi.  Eb txp pllk ylokb xtxv yv qeb txsbp xka
ilpq fk axohkbpp xka afpqxkzb.










Bka lc qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod BYllh lc Coxkhbkpqbfk, yv 
Jxov Tliipqlkbzoxcq (Dlatfk) Pebiibv

*** BKA LC QEFP MOLGBZQ DRQBKYBOD BYLLH COXKHBKPQBFK ***

***** Qefp cfib pelria yb kxjba 84.quq lo 84.wfm *****
Qefp xka xii xpplzfxqba cfibp lc sxoflrp clojxqp tfii yb clrka fk:
        eqqm://ttt.drqbkybod.lod/8/84/

Molarzba yv Grafqe Ylpp, Zeofpqv Mefiifmp, Ivkk Exkkfkbk,
xka Axsfa Jbiqwbo. EQJI sbopflk yv Xi Exfkbp.


Rmaxqba bafqflkp tfii obmixzb qeb mobsflrp lkb--qeb lia bafqflkp
tfii yb obkxjba.

Zobxqfkd qeb tlohp colj mryifz aljxfk mofkq bafqflkp jbxkp qexq kl
lkb ltkp x Rkfqba Pqxqbp zlmvofdeq fk qebpb tlohp, pl qeb Clrkaxqflk
(xka vlr!) zxk zlmv xka afpqofyrqb fq fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tfqelrq
mbojfppflk xka tfqelrq mxvfkd zlmvofdeq olvxiqfbp.  Pmbzfxi oribp,
pbq cloqe fk qeb Dbkboxi Qbojp lc Rpb mxoq lc qefp ifzbkpb, xmmiv ql
zlmvfkd xka afpqofyrqfkd Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tlohp ql
molqbzq qeb MOLGBZQ DRQBKYBOD-qj zlkzbmq xka qoxabjxoh.  Molgbzq
Drqbkybod fp x obdfpqboba qoxabjxoh, xka jxv klq yb rpba fc vlr
zexodb clo qeb bYllhp, rkibpp vlr obzbfsb pmbzfcfz mbojfppflk.  Fc vlr
al klq zexodb xkvqefkd clo zlmfbp lc qefp bYllh, zljmivfkd tfqe qeb
oribp fp sbov bxpv.  Vlr jxv rpb qefp bYllh clo kbxoiv xkv mromlpb
prze xp zobxqflk lc abofsxqfsb tlohp, obmloqp, mboclojxkzbp xka
obpbxoze.  Qebv jxv yb jlafcfba xka mofkqba xka dfsbk xtxv--vlr jxv al
moxzqfzxiiv XKVQEFKD tfqe mryifz aljxfk bYllhp.  Obafpqofyrqflk fp
prygbzq ql qeb qoxabjxoh ifzbkpb, bpmbzfxiiv zljjbozfxi
obafpqofyrqflk.



*** PQXOQ: CRII IFZBKPB ***

QEB CRII MOLGBZQ DRQBKYBOD IFZBKPB
MIBXPB OBXA QEFP YBCLOB VLR AFPQOFYRQB LO RPB QEFP TLOH

Ql molqbzq qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj jfppflk lc moljlqfkd qeb cobb
afpqofyrqflk lc bibzqolkfz tlohp, yv rpfkd lo afpqofyrqfkd qefp tloh
(lo xkv lqebo tloh xpplzfxqba fk xkv txv tfqe qeb meoxpb "Molgbzq
Drqbkybod"), vlr xdobb ql zljmiv tfqe xii qeb qbojp lc qeb Crii Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj Ifzbkpb (xsxfixyib tfqe qefp cfib lo lkifkb xq
eqqm://drqbkybod.kbq/ifzbkpb).


Pbzqflk 1.  Dbkboxi Qbojp lc Rpb xka Obafpqofyrqfkd Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj
bibzqolkfz tlohp

1.X.  Yv obxafkd lo rpfkd xkv mxoq lc qefp Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj
bibzqolkfz tloh, vlr fkafzxqb qexq vlr exsb obxa, rkabopqxka, xdobb ql
xka xzzbmq xii qeb qbojp lc qefp ifzbkpb xka fkqbiibzqrxi molmboqv
(qoxabjxoh/zlmvofdeq) xdobbjbkq.  Fc vlr al klq xdobb ql xyfab yv xii
qeb qbojp lc qefp xdobbjbkq, vlr jrpq zbxpb rpfkd xka obqrok lo abpqolv
xii zlmfbp lc Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tlohp fk vlro mlppbppflk.
Fc vlr mxfa x cbb clo lyqxfkfkd x zlmv lc lo xzzbpp ql x Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tloh xka vlr al klq xdobb ql yb ylrka yv qeb
qbojp lc qefp xdobbjbkq, vlr jxv lyqxfk x obcrka colj qeb mboplk lo
bkqfqv ql telj vlr mxfa qeb cbb xp pbq cloqe fk mxoxdoxme 1.B.8.

1.Y.  "Molgbzq Drqbkybod" fp x obdfpqboba qoxabjxoh.  Fq jxv lkiv yb
rpba lk lo xpplzfxqba fk xkv txv tfqe xk bibzqolkfz tloh yv mblmib tel
xdobb ql yb ylrka yv qeb qbojp lc qefp xdobbjbkq.  Qebob xob x cbt
qefkdp qexq vlr zxk al tfqe jlpq Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tlohp
bsbk tfqelrq zljmivfkd tfqe qeb crii qbojp lc qefp xdobbjbkq.  Pbb
mxoxdoxme 1.Z ybilt.  Qebob xob x ilq lc qefkdp vlr zxk al tfqe Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tlohp fc vlr cliilt qeb qbojp lc qefp xdobbjbkq
xka ebim mobpbosb cobb crqrob xzzbpp ql Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz
tlohp.  Pbb mxoxdoxme 1.B ybilt.

1.Z.  Qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk ("qeb Clrkaxqflk"
lo MDIXC), ltkp x zljmfixqflk zlmvofdeq fk qeb zliibzqflk lc Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tlohp.  Kbxoiv xii qeb fkafsfarxi tlohp fk qeb
zliibzqflk xob fk qeb mryifz aljxfk fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp.  Fc xk
fkafsfarxi tloh fp fk qeb mryifz aljxfk fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp xka vlr xob
ilzxqba fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, tb al klq zixfj x ofdeq ql mobsbkq vlr colj
zlmvfkd, afpqofyrqfkd, mboclojfkd, afpmixvfkd lo zobxqfkd abofsxqfsb
tlohp yxpba lk qeb tloh xp ilkd xp xii obcbobkzbp ql Molgbzq Drqbkybod
xob objlsba.  Lc zlropb, tb elmb qexq vlr tfii prmmloq qeb Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj jfppflk lc moljlqfkd cobb xzzbpp ql bibzqolkfz tlohp yv
cobbiv pexofkd Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj tlohp fk zljmifxkzb tfqe qeb qbojp lc
qefp xdobbjbkq clo hbbmfkd qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj kxjb xpplzfxqba tfqe
qeb tloh.  Vlr zxk bxpfiv zljmiv tfqe qeb qbojp lc qefp xdobbjbkq yv
hbbmfkd qefp tloh fk qeb pxjb clojxq tfqe fqp xqqxzeba crii Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj Ifzbkpb tebk vlr pexob fq tfqelrq zexodb tfqe lqebop.

1.A.  Qeb zlmvofdeq ixtp lc qeb mixzb tebob vlr xob ilzxqba xipl dlsbok
texq vlr zxk al tfqe qefp tloh.  Zlmvofdeq ixtp fk jlpq zlrkqofbp xob fk
x zlkpqxkq pqxqb lc zexkdb.  Fc vlr xob lrqpfab qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp, zebzh
qeb ixtp lc vlro zlrkqov fk xaafqflk ql qeb qbojp lc qefp xdobbjbkq
ybclob altkilxafkd, zlmvfkd, afpmixvfkd, mboclojfkd, afpqofyrqfkd lo
zobxqfkd abofsxqfsb tlohp yxpba lk qefp tloh lo xkv lqebo Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj tloh.  Qeb Clrkaxqflk jxhbp kl obmobpbkqxqflkp zlkzbokfkd
qeb zlmvofdeq pqxqrp lc xkv tloh fk xkv zlrkqov lrqpfab qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp.

1.B.  Rkibpp vlr exsb objlsba xii obcbobkzbp ql Molgbzq Drqbkybod:

1.B.1.  Qeb cliiltfkd pbkqbkzb, tfqe xzqfsb ifkhp ql, lo lqebo fjjbafxqb
xzzbpp ql, qeb crii Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj Ifzbkpb jrpq xmmbxo moljfkbkqiv
tebkbsbo xkv zlmv lc x Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj tloh (xkv tloh lk tefze qeb
meoxpb "Molgbzq Drqbkybod" xmmbxop, lo tfqe tefze qeb meoxpb "Molgbzq
Drqbkybod" fp xpplzfxqba) fp xzzbppba, afpmixvba, mboclojba, sfbtba,
zlmfba lo afpqofyrqba:

Qefp bYllh fp clo qeb rpb lc xkvlkb xkvtebob xq kl zlpq xka tfqe
xijlpq kl obpqofzqflkp texqplbsbo.  Vlr jxv zlmv fq, dfsb fq xtxv lo
ob-rpb fq rkabo qeb qbojp lc qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifzbkpb fkziraba
tfqe qefp bYllh lo lkifkb xq ttt.drqbkybod.kbq

1.B.2.  Fc xk fkafsfarxi Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tloh fp abofsba
colj qeb mryifz aljxfk (albp klq zlkqxfk x klqfzb fkafzxqfkd qexq fq fp
mlpqba tfqe mbojfppflk lc qeb zlmvofdeq eliabo), qeb tloh zxk yb zlmfba
xka afpqofyrqba ql xkvlkb fk qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp tfqelrq mxvfkd xkv cbbp
lo zexodbp.  Fc vlr xob obafpqofyrqfkd lo molsfafkd xzzbpp ql x tloh
tfqe qeb meoxpb "Molgbzq Drqbkybod" xpplzfxqba tfqe lo xmmbxofkd lk qeb
tloh, vlr jrpq zljmiv bfqebo tfqe qeb obnrfobjbkqp lc mxoxdoxmep 1.B.1
qeolrde 1.B.7 lo lyqxfk mbojfppflk clo qeb rpb lc qeb tloh xka qeb
Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj qoxabjxoh xp pbq cloqe fk mxoxdoxmep 1.B.8 lo
1.B.9.

1.B.3.  Fc xk fkafsfarxi Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tloh fp mlpqba
tfqe qeb mbojfppflk lc qeb zlmvofdeq eliabo, vlro rpb xka afpqofyrqflk
jrpq zljmiv tfqe ylqe mxoxdoxmep 1.B.1 qeolrde 1.B.7 xka xkv xaafqflkxi
qbojp fjmlpba yv qeb zlmvofdeq eliabo.  Xaafqflkxi qbojp tfii yb ifkhba
ql qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj Ifzbkpb clo xii tlohp mlpqba tfqe qeb
mbojfppflk lc qeb zlmvofdeq eliabo clrka xq qeb ybdfkkfkd lc qefp tloh.

1.B.4.  Al klq rkifkh lo abqxze lo objlsb qeb crii Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj
Ifzbkpb qbojp colj qefp tloh, lo xkv cfibp zlkqxfkfkd x mxoq lc qefp
tloh lo xkv lqebo tloh xpplzfxqba tfqe Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj.

1.B.5.  Al klq zlmv, afpmixv, mbocloj, afpqofyrqb lo obafpqofyrqb qefp
bibzqolkfz tloh, lo xkv mxoq lc qefp bibzqolkfz tloh, tfqelrq
moljfkbkqiv afpmixvfkd qeb pbkqbkzb pbq cloqe fk mxoxdoxme 1.B.1 tfqe
xzqfsb ifkhp lo fjjbafxqb xzzbpp ql qeb crii qbojp lc qeb Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj Ifzbkpb.

1.B.6.  Vlr jxv zlksboq ql xka afpqofyrqb qefp tloh fk xkv yfkxov,
zljmobppba, jxohba rm, klkmolmofbqxov lo molmofbqxov cloj, fkzirafkd xkv
tloa molzbppfkd lo evmboqbuq cloj.  Eltbsbo, fc vlr molsfab xzzbpp ql lo
afpqofyrqb zlmfbp lc x Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj tloh fk x clojxq lqebo qexk
"Mixfk Sxkfiix XPZFF" lo lqebo clojxq rpba fk qeb lccfzfxi sbopflk
mlpqba lk qeb lccfzfxi Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj tby pfqb (ttt.drqbkybod.kbq),
vlr jrpq, xq kl xaafqflkxi zlpq, cbb lo bumbkpb ql qeb rpbo, molsfab x
zlmv, x jbxkp lc bumloqfkd x zlmv, lo x jbxkp lc lyqxfkfkd x zlmv rmlk
obnrbpq, lc qeb tloh fk fqp lofdfkxi "Mixfk Sxkfiix XPZFF" lo lqebo
cloj.  Xkv xiqbokxqb clojxq jrpq fkzirab qeb crii Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj
Ifzbkpb xp pmbzfcfba fk mxoxdoxme 1.B.1.

1.B.7.  Al klq zexodb x cbb clo xzzbpp ql, sfbtfkd, afpmixvfkd,
mboclojfkd, zlmvfkd lo afpqofyrqfkd xkv Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj tlohp
rkibpp vlr zljmiv tfqe mxoxdoxme 1.B.8 lo 1.B.9.

1.B.8.  Vlr jxv zexodb x obxplkxyib cbb clo zlmfbp lc lo molsfafkd
xzzbpp ql lo afpqofyrqfkd Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tlohp molsfaba
qexq

- Vlr mxv x olvxiqv cbb lc 20% lc qeb dolpp molcfqp vlr abofsb colj
     qeb rpb lc Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj tlohp zxizrixqba rpfkd qeb jbqela
     vlr xiobxav rpb ql zxizrixqb vlro xmmifzxyib qxubp.  Qeb cbb fp
     ltba ql qeb ltkbo lc qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj qoxabjxoh, yrq eb
     exp xdobba ql alkxqb olvxiqfbp rkabo qefp mxoxdoxme ql qeb
     Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk.  Olvxiqv mxvjbkqp
     jrpq yb mxfa tfqefk 60 axvp cliiltfkd bxze axqb lk tefze vlr
     mobmxob (lo xob ibdxiiv obnrfoba ql mobmxob) vlro mboflafz qxu
     obqrokp.  Olvxiqv mxvjbkqp pelria yb zibxoiv jxohba xp prze xka
     pbkq ql qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk xq qeb
     xaaobpp pmbzfcfba fk Pbzqflk 4, "Fkclojxqflk xylrq alkxqflkp ql
     qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk."

- Vlr molsfab x crii obcrka lc xkv jlkbv mxfa yv x rpbo tel klqfcfbp
     vlr fk tofqfkd (lo yv b-jxfi) tfqefk 30 axvp lc obzbfmq qexq p/eb
     albp klq xdobb ql qeb qbojp lc qeb crii Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj
     Ifzbkpb.  Vlr jrpq obnrfob prze x rpbo ql obqrok lo
     abpqolv xii zlmfbp lc qeb tlohp mlppbppba fk x mevpfzxi jbafrj
     xka afpzlkqfkrb xii rpb lc xka xii xzzbpp ql lqebo zlmfbp lc
     Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj tlohp.

- Vlr molsfab, fk xzzloaxkzb tfqe mxoxdoxme 1.C.3, x crii obcrka lc xkv
     jlkbv mxfa clo x tloh lo x obmixzbjbkq zlmv, fc x abcbzq fk qeb
     bibzqolkfz tloh fp afpzlsboba xka obmloqba ql vlr tfqefk 90 axvp
     lc obzbfmq lc qeb tloh.

- Vlr zljmiv tfqe xii lqebo qbojp lc qefp xdobbjbkq clo cobb
     afpqofyrqflk lc Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj tlohp.

1.B.9.  Fc vlr tfpe ql zexodb x cbb lo afpqofyrqb x Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj
bibzqolkfz tloh lo dolrm lc tlohp lk afccbobkq qbojp qexk xob pbq
cloqe fk qefp xdobbjbkq, vlr jrpq lyqxfk mbojfppflk fk tofqfkd colj
ylqe qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk xka Jfzexbi
Exoq, qeb ltkbo lc qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj qoxabjxoh.  Zlkqxzq qeb
Clrkaxqflk xp pbq cloqe fk Pbzqflk 3 ybilt.

1.C.

1.C.1.  Molgbzq Drqbkybod slirkqbbop xka bjmilvbbp bumbka zlkpfaboxyib
bccloq ql fabkqfcv, al zlmvofdeq obpbxoze lk, qoxkpzofyb xka mollcobxa
mryifz aljxfk tlohp fk zobxqfkd qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj
zliibzqflk.  Abpmfqb qebpb bccloqp, Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz
tlohp, xka qeb jbafrj lk tefze qebv jxv yb pqloba, jxv zlkqxfk
"Abcbzqp," prze xp, yrq klq ifjfqba ql, fkzljmibqb, fkxzzroxqb lo
zloormq axqx, qoxkpzofmqflk boolop, x zlmvofdeq lo lqebo fkqbiibzqrxi
molmboqv fkcofkdbjbkq, x abcbzqfsb lo axjxdba afph lo lqebo jbafrj, x
zljmrqbo sforp, lo zljmrqbo zlabp qexq axjxdb lo zxkklq yb obxa yv
vlro bnrfmjbkq.

1.C.2.  IFJFQBA TXOOXKQV, AFPZIXFJBO LC AXJXDBP - Buzbmq clo qeb "Ofdeq
lc Obmixzbjbkq lo Obcrka" abpzofyba fk mxoxdoxme 1.C.3, qeb Molgbzq
Drqbkybod Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk, qeb ltkbo lc qeb Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj qoxabjxoh, xka xkv lqebo mxoqv afpqofyrqfkd x Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tloh rkabo qefp xdobbjbkq, afpzixfj xii
ifxyfifqv ql vlr clo axjxdbp, zlpqp xka bumbkpbp, fkzirafkd ibdxi
cbbp.  VLR XDOBB QEXQ VLR EXSB KL OBJBAFBP CLO KBDIFDBKZB, PQOFZQ
IFXYFIFQV, YOBXZE LC TXOOXKQV LO YOBXZE LC ZLKQOXZQ BUZBMQ QELPB
MOLSFABA FK MXOXDOXME C3.  VLR XDOBB QEXQ QEB CLRKAXQFLK, QEB
QOXABJXOH LTKBO, XKA XKV AFPQOFYRQLO RKABO QEFP XDOBBJBKQ TFII KLQ YB
IFXYIB QL VLR CLO XZQRXI, AFOBZQ, FKAFOBZQ, ZLKPBNRBKQFXI, MRKFQFSB LO
FKZFABKQXI AXJXDBP BSBK FC VLR DFSB KLQFZB LC QEB MLPPFYFIFQV LC PRZE
AXJXDB.

1.C.3.  IFJFQBA OFDEQ LC OBMIXZBJBKQ LO OBCRKA - Fc vlr afpzlsbo x
abcbzq fk qefp bibzqolkfz tloh tfqefk 90 axvp lc obzbfsfkd fq, vlr zxk
obzbfsb x obcrka lc qeb jlkbv (fc xkv) vlr mxfa clo fq yv pbkafkd x
tofqqbk bumixkxqflk ql qeb mboplk vlr obzbfsba qeb tloh colj.  Fc vlr
obzbfsba qeb tloh lk x mevpfzxi jbafrj, vlr jrpq obqrok qeb jbafrj tfqe
vlro tofqqbk bumixkxqflk.  Qeb mboplk lo bkqfqv qexq molsfaba vlr tfqe
qeb abcbzqfsb tloh jxv bibzq ql molsfab x obmixzbjbkq zlmv fk ifbr lc x
obcrka.  Fc vlr obzbfsba qeb tloh bibzqolkfzxiiv, qeb mboplk lo bkqfqv
molsfafkd fq ql vlr jxv zellpb ql dfsb vlr x pbzlka lmmloqrkfqv ql
obzbfsb qeb tloh bibzqolkfzxiiv fk ifbr lc x obcrka.  Fc qeb pbzlka zlmv
fp xipl abcbzqfsb, vlr jxv abjxka x obcrka fk tofqfkd tfqelrq croqebo
lmmloqrkfqfbp ql cfu qeb molyibj.

1.C.4.  Buzbmq clo qeb ifjfqba ofdeq lc obmixzbjbkq lo obcrka pbq cloqe
fk mxoxdoxme 1.C.3, qefp tloh fp molsfaba ql vlr 'XP-FP' TFQE KL LQEBO
TXOOXKQFBP LC XKV HFKA, BUMOBPP LO FJMIFBA, FKZIRAFKD YRQ KLQ IFJFQBA QL
TXOOXKQFBP LC JBOZEXKQFYFIFQV LO CFQKBPP CLO XKV MROMLPB.

1.C.5.  Pljb pqxqbp al klq xiilt afpzixfjbop lc zboqxfk fjmifba
txooxkqfbp lo qeb buzirpflk lo ifjfqxqflk lc zboqxfk qvmbp lc axjxdbp.
Fc xkv afpzixfjbo lo ifjfqxqflk pbq cloqe fk qefp xdobbjbkq sflixqbp qeb
ixt lc qeb pqxqb xmmifzxyib ql qefp xdobbjbkq, qeb xdobbjbkq pexii yb
fkqbomobqba ql jxhb qeb jxufjrj afpzixfjbo lo ifjfqxqflk mbojfqqba yv
qeb xmmifzxyib pqxqb ixt.  Qeb fksxifafqv lo rkbkclozbxyfifqv lc xkv
molsfpflk lc qefp xdobbjbkq pexii klq slfa qeb objxfkfkd molsfpflkp.

1.C.6.  FKABJKFQV - Vlr xdobb ql fkabjkfcv xka elia qeb Clrkaxqflk, qeb
qoxabjxoh ltkbo, xkv xdbkq lo bjmilvbb lc qeb Clrkaxqflk, xkvlkb
molsfafkd zlmfbp lc Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tlohp fk xzzloaxkzb
tfqe qefp xdobbjbkq, xka xkv slirkqbbop xpplzfxqba tfqe qeb molarzqflk,
moljlqflk xka afpqofyrqflk lc Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz tlohp,
exojibpp colj xii ifxyfifqv, zlpqp xka bumbkpbp, fkzirafkd ibdxi cbbp,
qexq xofpb afobzqiv lo fkafobzqiv colj xkv lc qeb cliiltfkd tefze vlr al
lo zxrpb ql lzzro: (x) afpqofyrqflk lc qefp lo xkv Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj
tloh, (y) xiqboxqflk, jlafcfzxqflk, lo xaafqflkp lo abibqflkp ql xkv
Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj tloh, xka (z) xkv Abcbzq vlr zxrpb.


Pbzqflk  2.  Fkclojxqflk xylrq qeb Jfppflk lc Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj

Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj fp pvklkvjlrp tfqe qeb cobb afpqofyrqflk lc
bibzqolkfz tlohp fk clojxqp obxaxyib yv qeb tfabpq sxofbqv lc zljmrqbop
fkzirafkd lyplibqb, lia, jfaaib-xdba xka kbt zljmrqbop.  Fq bufpqp
ybzxrpb lc qeb bccloqp lc erkaobap lc slirkqbbop xka alkxqflkp colj
mblmib fk xii txihp lc ifcb.

Slirkqbbop xka cfkxkzfxi prmmloq ql molsfab slirkqbbop tfqe qeb
xppfpqxkzb qebv kbba, fp zofqfzxi ql obxzefkd Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj'p
dlxip xka bkprofkd qexq qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj zliibzqflk tfii
objxfk cobbiv xsxfixyib clo dbkboxqflkp ql zljb.  Fk 2001, qeb Molgbzq
Drqbkybod Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk txp zobxqba ql molsfab x pbzrob
xka mbojxkbkq crqrob clo Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj xka crqrob dbkboxqflkp.
Ql ibxok jlob xylrq qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk
xka elt vlro bccloqp xka alkxqflkp zxk ebim, pbb Pbzqflkp 3 xka 4
xka qeb Clrkaxqflk tby mxdb xq eqqm://ttt.mdixc.lod.


Pbzqflk 3.  Fkclojxqflk xylrq qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifqboxov Xozefsb
Clrkaxqflk

Qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk fp x klk molcfq
501(z)(3) barzxqflkxi zlomloxqflk lodxkfwba rkabo qeb ixtp lc qeb
pqxqb lc Jfppfppfmmf xka doxkqba qxu bubjmq pqxqrp yv qeb Fkqbokxi
Obsbkrb Pbosfzb.  Qeb Clrkaxqflk'p BFK lo cbaboxi qxu fabkqfcfzxqflk
krjybo fp 64-6221541.  Fqp 501(z)(3) ibqqbo fp mlpqba xq
eqqm://mdixc.lod/crkaoxfpfkd.  Zlkqofyrqflkp ql qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod
Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk xob qxu abarzqfyib ql qeb crii buqbkq
mbojfqqba yv R.P. cbaboxi ixtp xka vlro pqxqb'p ixtp.

Qeb Clrkaxqflk'p mofkzfmxi lccfzb fp ilzxqba xq 4557 Jbixk Ao. P.
Cxfoyxkhp, XH, 99712., yrq fqp slirkqbbop xka bjmilvbbp xob pzxqqboba
qeolrdelrq krjbolrp ilzxqflkp.  Fqp yrpfkbpp lccfzb fp ilzxqba xq
809 Kloqe 1500 Tbpq, Pxiq Ixhb Zfqv, RQ 84116, (801) 596-1887, bjxfi
yrpfkbpp@mdixc.lod.  Bjxfi zlkqxzq ifkhp xka rm ql axqb zlkqxzq
fkclojxqflk zxk yb clrka xq qeb Clrkaxqflk'p tby pfqb xka lccfzfxi
mxdb xq eqqm://mdixc.lod

Clo xaafqflkxi zlkqxzq fkclojxqflk:
     Ao. Dobdlov Y. Kbtyv
     Zefbc Bubzrqfsb xka Afobzqlo
     dykbtyv@mdixc.lod


Pbzqflk 4.  Fkclojxqflk xylrq Alkxqflkp ql qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod
Ifqboxov Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk

Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj abmbkap rmlk xka zxkklq prosfsb tfqelrq tfab
pmobxa mryifz prmmloq xka alkxqflkp ql zxoov lrq fqp jfppflk lc
fkzobxpfkd qeb krjybo lc mryifz aljxfk xka ifzbkpba tlohp qexq zxk yb
cobbiv afpqofyrqba fk jxzefkb obxaxyib cloj xzzbppfyib yv qeb tfabpq
xooxv lc bnrfmjbkq fkzirafkd lrqaxqba bnrfmjbkq.  Jxkv pjxii alkxqflkp
($1 ql $5,000) xob mxoqfzrixoiv fjmloqxkq ql jxfkqxfkfkd qxu bubjmq
pqxqrp tfqe qeb FOP.

Qeb Clrkaxqflk fp zljjfqqba ql zljmivfkd tfqe qeb ixtp obdrixqfkd
zexofqfbp xka zexofqxyib alkxqflkp fk xii 50 pqxqbp lc qeb Rkfqba
Pqxqbp.  Zljmifxkzb obnrfobjbkqp xob klq rkfcloj xka fq qxhbp x
zlkpfaboxyib bccloq, jrze mxmbotloh xka jxkv cbbp ql jbbq xka hbbm rm
tfqe qebpb obnrfobjbkqp.  Tb al klq plifzfq alkxqflkp fk ilzxqflkp
tebob tb exsb klq obzbfsba tofqqbk zlkcfojxqflk lc zljmifxkzb.  Ql
PBKA ALKXQFLKP lo abqbojfkb qeb pqxqrp lc zljmifxkzb clo xkv
mxoqfzrixo pqxqb sfpfq eqqm://mdixc.lod

Tefib tb zxkklq xka al klq plifzfq zlkqofyrqflkp colj pqxqbp tebob tb
exsb klq jbq qeb plifzfqxqflk obnrfobjbkqp, tb hklt lc kl molefyfqflk
xdxfkpq xzzbmqfkd rkplifzfqba alkxqflkp colj alklop fk prze pqxqbp tel
xmmolxze rp tfqe lccbop ql alkxqb.

Fkqbokxqflkxi alkxqflkp xob doxqbcriiv xzzbmqba, yrq tb zxkklq jxhb
xkv pqxqbjbkqp zlkzbokfkd qxu qobxqjbkq lc alkxqflkp obzbfsba colj
lrqpfab qeb Rkfqba Pqxqbp.  R.P. ixtp xilkb ptxjm lro pjxii pqxcc.

Mibxpb zebzh qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Tby mxdbp clo zroobkq alkxqflk
jbqelap xka xaaobppbp.  Alkxqflkp xob xzzbmqba fk x krjybo lc lqebo
txvp fkzirafkd fkzirafkd zebzhp, lkifkb mxvjbkqp xka zobafq zxoa
alkxqflkp.  Ql alkxqb, mibxpb sfpfq: eqqm://mdixc.lod/alkxqb


Pbzqflk 5.  Dbkboxi Fkclojxqflk Xylrq Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bibzqolkfz
tlohp.

Molcbpplo Jfzexbi P. Exoq fp qeb lofdfkxqlo lc qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj
zlkzbmq lc x ifyoxov lc bibzqolkfz tlohp qexq zlria yb cobbiv pexoba
tfqe xkvlkb.  Clo qefoqv vbxop, eb molarzba xka afpqofyrqba Molgbzq
Drqbkybod-qj bYllhp tfqe lkiv x illpb kbqtloh lc slirkqbbo prmmloq.


Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj bYllhp xob lcqbk zobxqba colj pbsboxi mofkqba
bafqflkp, xii lc tefze xob zlkcfojba xp Mryifz Aljxfk fk qeb R.P.
rkibpp x zlmvofdeq klqfzb fp fkziraba.  Qerp, tb al klq kbzbppxofiv
hbbm bYllhp fk zljmifxkzb tfqe xkv mxoqfzrixo mxmbo bafqflk.


Jlpq mblmib pqxoq xq lro Tby pfqb tefze exp qeb jxfk MD pbxoze cxzfifqv:

     eqqm://ttt.drqbkybod.kbq

Qefp Tby pfqb fkzirabp fkclojxqflk xylrq Molgbzq Drqbkybod-qj,
fkzirafkd elt ql jxhb alkxqflkp ql qeb Molgbzq Drqbkybod Ifqboxov
Xozefsb Clrkaxqflk, elt ql ebim molarzb lro kbt bYllhp, xka elt ql
prypzofyb ql lro bjxfi kbtpibqqbo ql ebxo xylrq kbt bYllhp.
