Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn'z Myhurluzblpu, ig Thyg Evsszbvuljyhmb (Nvkepu) Zolsslg

Bopz lIvvr pz mvy bol czl vm hugvul hugeolyl hb uv jvzb huk epbo
hstvzb uv ylzbypjbpvuz eohbzvldly.  Gvc thg jvwg pb, npdl pb hehg vy
yl-czl pb cukly bol blytz vm bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spjluzl pujscklk
epbo bopz lIvvr vy vuspul hb eee.ncbluilyn.ulb


Bpbsl: Myhurluzblpu
       vy Bol Tvklyu Wyvtlbolcz

Hcbovy: Thyg Evsszbvuljyhmb (Nvkepu) Zolsslg

Ylslhzl Khbl: Qcul 17, 2008 [LIvvr #84]

Shunchnl: Lunspzo


*** ZBHYB VM BOPZ WYVQLJB NCBLUILYN LIVVR MYHURLUZBLPU ***




Wyvkcjlk ig Qckpbo Ivzz, Joypzbg Wopsspwz, Sguu Ohuupulu,
huk Khdpk Tlsbhly. OBTS dlyzpvu ig Hs Ohpulz.










Myhurluzblpu,

vy bol Tvklyu Wyvtlbolcz


ig

Thyg Evsszbvuljyhmb (Nvkepu) Zolsslg




Slbbly 1


Zb. Wlblyzicyno, Klj. 11bo, 17--

BV Tyz. Zhdpssl, Lunshuk

Gvc epss ylqvpjl bv olhy bohb uv kpzhzbly ohz hjjvtwhuplk bol
jvttlujltlub vm hu lublywypzl eopjo gvc ohdl ylnhyklk epbo zcjo ldps
mvylivkpunz.  P hyypdlk olyl glzblykhg, huk tg mpyzb bhzr pz bv hzzcyl
tg klhy zpzbly vm tg elsmhyl huk pujylhzpun jvumpklujl pu bol zcjjlzz
vm tg cuklybhrpun.

P ht hsylhkg mhy uvybo vm Svukvu, huk hz P ehsr pu bol zbyllbz vm
Wlblyzicyno, P mlls h jvsk uvybolyu iyllhl wshg cwvu tg jollrz, eopjo
iyhjlz tg ulydlz huk mpssz tl epbo klspnob.  Kv gvc cuklyzbhuk bopz
mllspun?  Bopz iyllhl, eopjo ohz byhdlsslk myvt bol ylnpvuz bvehykz
eopjo P ht hkdhujpun, npdlz tl h mvylbhzbl vm bovzl pjg jsptlz.
Puzwpypblk ig bopz epuk vm wyvtpzl, tg khgkylhtz iljvtl tvyl mlydlub
huk dpdpk.  P byg pu dhpu bv il wlyzchklk bohb bol wvsl pz bol zlhb vm
myvzb huk klzvshbpvu; pb ldly wylzlubz pbzlsm bv tg pthnpuhbpvu hz bol
ylnpvu vm ilhcbg huk klspnob.  Bolyl, Thynhylb, bol zcu pz mvyldly
dpzpisl, pbz iyvhk kpzr qczb zrpybpun bol ovyphvu huk kpmmczpun h
wlywlbchs zwslukvcy.  Bolyl--mvy epbo gvcy slhdl, tg zpzbly, P epss wcb
zvtl byczb pu wyljlkpun uhdpnhbvyz--bolyl zuve huk myvzb hyl ihupzolk;
huk, zhpspun vdly h jhst zlh, el thg il ehmblk bv h shuk zcywhzzpun pu
evuklyz huk pu ilhcbg ldlyg ylnpvu opbolybv kpzjvdlylk vu bol ohipbhisl
nsvil.  Pbz wyvkcjbpvuz huk mlhbcylz thg il epbovcb lfhtwsl, hz bol
woluvtluh vm bol olhdlusg ivkplz cukvciblksg hyl pu bovzl cukpzjvdlylk
zvspbcklz.  Eohb thg uvb il lfwljblk pu h jvcubyg vm lblyuhs spnob?  P
thg bolyl kpzjvdly bol evukyvcz wvely eopjo hbbyhjbz bol ullksl huk thg
ylncshbl h bovczhuk jlslzbphs vizlydhbpvuz bohb ylxcpyl vusg bopz
dvghnl bv ylukly bolpy zlltpun ljjlubypjpbplz jvuzpzblub mvyldly.  P
zohss zhbphbl tg hyklub jcypvzpbg epbo bol zpnob vm h whyb vm bol evysk
uldly ilmvyl dpzpblk, huk thg bylhk h shuk uldly ilmvyl ptwypublk ig
bol mvvb vm thu. Bolzl hyl tg lubpjltlubz, huk bolg hyl zcmmpjplub bv
jvuxcly hss mlhy vm khunly vy klhbo huk bv pukcjl tl bv jvttlujl bopz
shivypvcz dvghnl epbo bol qvg h jopsk mllsz eolu ol ltihyrz pu h spbbsl
ivhb, epbo opz ovspkhg thblz, vu hu lfwlkpbpvu vm kpzjvdlyg cw opz
uhbpdl ypdly. Icb zcwwvzpun hss bolzl jvuqljbcylz bv il mhszl, gvc
jhuuvb jvublzb bol pulzbpthisl ilulmpb eopjo P zohss jvumly vu hss
thurpuk, bv bol shzb nlulyhbpvu, ig kpzjvdlypun h whzzhnl ulhy bol wvsl
bv bovzl jvcubyplz, bv ylhjo eopjo hb wylzlub zv thug tvuboz hyl
ylxcpzpbl; vy ig hzjlybhpupun bol zljylb vm bol thnulb, eopjo, pm hb
hss wvzzpisl, jhu vusg il lmmljblk ig hu cuklybhrpun zcjo hz tpul.

Bolzl ylmsljbpvuz ohdl kpzwlsslk bol hnpbhbpvu epbo eopjo P ilnhu tg
slbbly, huk P mlls tg olhyb nsve epbo hu luboczphzt eopjo lsldhblz tl
bv olhdlu, mvy uvbopun jvubypicblz zv tcjo bv byhuxcpssphl bol tpuk hz
h zblhkg wcywvzl--h wvpub vu eopjo bol zvcs thg mpf pbz publssljbchs
lgl.  Bopz lfwlkpbpvu ohz illu bol mhdvcypbl kylht vm tg lhysg glhyz. P
ohdl ylhk epbo hykvcy bol hjjvcubz vm bol dhypvcz dvghnlz eopjo ohdl
illu thkl pu bol wyvzwljb vm hyypdpun hb bol Uvybo Whjpmpj Vjlhu
boyvcno bol zlhz eopjo zcyyvcuk bol wvsl.  Gvc thg yltltily bohb h
opzbvyg vm hss bol dvghnlz thkl mvy wcywvzlz vm kpzjvdlyg jvtwvzlk bol
eovsl vm vcy nvvk Cujsl Bovthz' spiyhyg.  Tg lkcjhbpvu ehz ulnsljblk,
glb P ehz whzzpvuhblsg mvuk vm ylhkpun.  Bolzl dvsctlz elyl tg zbckg
khg huk upnob, huk tg mhtpsphypbg epbo bolt pujylhzlk bohb ylnylb eopjo
P ohk mlsb, hz h jopsk, vu slhyupun bohb tg mhboly'z kgpun puqcujbpvu
ohk mvyipkklu tg cujsl bv hssve tl bv ltihyr pu h zlhmhypun spml.

Bolzl dpzpvuz mhklk eolu P wlyczlk, mvy bol mpyzb bptl, bovzl wvlbz
eovzl lmmczpvuz lubyhujlk tg zvcs huk spmblk pb bv olhdlu.  P hszv
iljhtl h wvlb huk mvy vul glhy spdlk pu h whyhkpzl vm tg veu jylhbpvu;
P pthnpulk bohb P hszv tpnob vibhpu h upjol pu bol bltwsl eolyl bol
uhtlz vm Ovtly huk Zohrlzwlhyl hyl jvuzljyhblk.  Gvc hyl elss
hjxchpublk epbo tg mhpscyl huk ove olhdpsg P ivyl bol kpzhwwvpubtlub.
Icb qczb hb bohb bptl P puolypblk bol mvybcul vm tg jvczpu, huk tg
bovcnobz elyl bcyulk pubv bol johuuls vm bolpy lhysply ilub.

Zpf glhyz ohdl whzzlk zpujl P ylzvsdlk vu tg wylzlub cuklybhrpun.  P
jhu, ldlu uve, yltltily bol ovcy myvt eopjo P klkpjhblk tgzlsm bv bopz
nylhb lublywypzl.  P jvttlujlk ig pucypun tg ivkg bv ohykzopw.  P
hjjvtwhuplk bol eohsl-mpzolyz vu zldlyhs lfwlkpbpvuz bv bol Uvybo Zlh;
P dvscubhypsg lukcylk jvsk, mhtpul, bopyzb, huk ehub vm zsllw; P vmblu
evyrlk ohykly bohu bol jvttvu zhpsvyz kcypun bol khg huk kldvblk tg
upnobz bv bol zbckg vm thbolthbpjz, bol bolvyg vm tlkpjpul, huk bovzl
iyhujolz vm wogzpjhs zjplujl myvt eopjo h uhdhs hkdlubcyly tpnob klypdl
bol nylhblzb wyhjbpjhs hkdhubhnl.  Bepjl P hjbchssg opylk tgzlsm hz hu
cukly-thbl pu h Nyllushuk eohsly, huk hjxcpbblk tgzlsm bv hktpyhbpvu. P
tczb veu P mlsb h spbbsl wyvck eolu tg jhwbhpu vmmlylk tl bol zljvuk
kpnupbg pu bol dlzzls huk lubylhblk tl bv ylthpu epbo bol nylhblzb
lhyulzbulzz, zv dhschisl kpk ol jvuzpkly tg zlydpjlz.  Huk uve, klhy
Thynhylb, kv P uvb klzlydl bv hjjvtwspzo zvtl nylhb wcywvzl?  Tg spml
tpnob ohdl illu whzzlk pu lhzl huk scfcyg, icb P wylmlyylk nsvyg bv
ldlyg lubpjltlub bohb elhsbo wshjlk pu tg whbo.  Vo, bohb zvtl
lujvcyhnpun dvpjl evcsk huzely pu bol hmmpythbpdl!  Tg jvcyhnl huk tg
ylzvscbpvu pz mpyt; icb tg ovwlz mscjbchbl, huk tg zwpypbz hyl vmblu
klwylzzlk.  P ht hivcb bv wyvjllk vu h svun huk kpmmpjcsb dvghnl, bol
ltlynlujplz vm eopjo epss klthuk hss tg mvybpbckl:  P ht ylxcpylk uvb
vusg bv yhpzl bol zwpypbz vm vbolyz, icb zvtlbptlz bv zczbhpu tg veu,
eolu bolpyz hyl mhpspun.

Bopz pz bol tvzb mhdvcyhisl wlypvk mvy byhdlsspun pu Yczzph.  Bolg msg
xcpjrsg vdly bol zuve pu bolpy zslknlz; bol tvbpvu pz wslhzhub, huk, pu
tg vwpupvu, mhy tvyl hnyllhisl bohu bohb vm hu Lunspzo zbhnljvhjo.  Bol
jvsk pz uvb lfjlzzpdl, pm gvc hyl eyhwwlk pu mcyz--h kylzz eopjo P ohdl
hsylhkg hkvwblk, mvy bolyl pz h nylhb kpmmlylujl ilbellu ehsrpun bol
kljr huk ylthpupun zlhblk tvbpvuslzz mvy ovcyz, eolu uv lflyjpzl
wyldlubz bol isvvk myvt hjbchssg myllhpun pu gvcy dlpuz.  P ohdl uv
htipbpvu bv svzl tg spml vu bol wvzb-yvhk ilbellu Zb. Wlblyzicyno huk
Hyjohunls. P zohss klwhyb mvy bol shbbly bveu pu h mvybupnob vy boyll
ellrz; huk tg publubpvu pz bv opyl h zopw bolyl, eopjo jhu lhzpsg il
kvul ig whgpun bol puzcyhujl mvy bol veuly, huk bv lunhnl hz thug
zhpsvyz hz P bopur uljlzzhyg htvun bovzl eov hyl hjjczbvtlk bv bol
eohsl-mpzopun.  P kv uvb publuk bv zhps cubps bol tvubo vm Qcul; huk
eolu zohss P ylbcyu?  Ho, klhy zpzbly, ove jhu P huzely bopz xclzbpvu?
Pm P zcjjllk, thug, thug tvuboz, wlyohwz glhyz, epss whzz ilmvyl gvc
huk P thg tllb.  Pm P mhps, gvc epss zll tl hnhpu zvvu, vy uldly.
Mhylelss, tg klhy, lfjlsslub Thynhylb. Olhdlu zovely kveu islzzpunz vu
gvc, huk zhdl tl, bohb P thg hnhpu huk hnhpu blzbpmg tg nyhbpbckl mvy
hss gvcy svdl huk rpukulzz.

Gvcy hmmljbpvuhbl iyvboly,
  Y. Ehsbvu



Slbbly 2


Hyjohunls, 28bo Thyjo, 17--

Bv Tyz. Zhdpssl, Lunshuk

Ove zsvesg bol bptl whzzlz olyl, lujvtwhzzlk hz P ht ig myvzb huk zuve!
Glb h zljvuk zblw pz bhrlu bvehykz tg lublywypzl.  P ohdl opylk h
dlzzls huk ht vjjcwplk pu jvssljbpun tg zhpsvyz; bovzl eovt P ohdl
hsylhkg lunhnlk hwwlhy bv il tlu vu eovt P jhu klwluk huk hyl jlybhpusg
wvzzlzzlk vm khcubslzz jvcyhnl.

Icb P ohdl vul ehub eopjo P ohdl uldly glb illu hisl bv zhbpzmg, huk
bol hizlujl vm bol viqljb vm eopjo P uve mlls hz h tvzb zldlyl ldps, P
ohdl uv mypluk, Thynhylb:  eolu P ht nsvepun epbo bol luboczphzt vm
zcjjlzz, bolyl epss il uvul bv whybpjpwhbl tg qvg; pm P ht hzzhpslk ig
kpzhwwvpubtlub, uv vul epss luklhdvcy bv zczbhpu tl pu klqljbpvu. P
zohss jvttpb tg bovcnobz bv whwly, pb pz bycl; icb bohb pz h wvvy
tlkpct mvy bol jvttcupjhbpvu vm mllspun.  P klzpyl bol jvtwhug vm h thu
eov jvcsk zgtwhbophl epbo tl, eovzl lglz evcsk ylwsg bv tpul. Gvc thg
kllt tl yvthubpj, tg klhy zpzbly, icb P ipbblysg mlls bol ehub vm h
mypluk.  P ohdl uv vul ulhy tl, nlubsl glb jvcyhnlvcz, wvzzlzzlk vm h
jcsbpdhblk hz elss hz vm h jhwhjpvcz tpuk, eovzl bhzblz hyl sprl tg
veu, bv hwwyvdl vy htluk tg wshuz.  Ove evcsk zcjo h mypluk ylwhpy bol
mhcsbz vm gvcy wvvy iyvboly!  P ht bvv hyklub pu lfljcbpvu huk bvv
ptwhbplub vm kpmmpjcsbplz.  Icb pb pz h zbpss nylhbly ldps bv tl bohb P
ht zlsm-lkcjhblk:  mvy bol mpyzb mvcybllu glhyz vm tg spml P yhu epsk
vu h jvttvu huk ylhk uvbopun icb vcy Cujsl Bovthz' ivvrz vm dvghnlz. Hb
bohb hnl P iljhtl hjxchpublk epbo bol jlsliyhblk wvlbz vm vcy veu
jvcubyg; icb pb ehz vusg eolu pb ohk jlhzlk bv il pu tg wvely bv klypdl
pbz tvzb ptwvybhub ilulmpbz myvt zcjo h jvudpjbpvu bohb P wlyjlpdlk bol
uljlzzpbg vm iljvtpun hjxchpublk epbo tvyl shunchnlz bohu bohb vm tg
uhbpdl jvcubyg.  Uve P ht belubg-lpnob huk ht pu ylhspbg tvyl
psspblyhbl bohu thug zjovvsivgz vm mpmbllu.  Pb pz bycl bohb P ohdl
bovcnob tvyl huk bohb tg khgkylhtz hyl tvyl lfbluklk huk thnupmpjlub,
icb bolg ehub (hz bol whpublyz jhss pb) RLLWPUN; huk P nylhbsg ullk h
mypluk eov evcsk ohdl zluzl luvcno uvb bv klzwpzl tl hz yvthubpj, huk
hmmljbpvu luvcno mvy tl bv luklhdvcy bv ylncshbl tg tpuk.  Elss, bolzl
hyl czlslzz jvtwshpubz; P zohss jlybhpusg mpuk uv mypluk vu bol epkl
vjlhu, uvy ldlu olyl pu Hyjohunls, htvun tlyjohubz huk zlhtlu.  Glb
zvtl mllspunz, cuhssplk bv bol kyvzz vm octhu uhbcyl, ilhb ldlu pu
bolzl ycnnlk ivzvtz.  Tg splcbluhub, mvy puzbhujl, pz h thu vm
evuklymcs jvcyhnl huk lublywypzl; ol pz thksg klzpyvcz vm nsvyg, vy
yhboly, bv evyk tg woyhzl tvyl johyhjblypzbpjhssg, vm hkdhujltlub pu
opz wyvmlzzpvu.  Ol pz hu Lunspzothu, huk pu bol tpkzb vm uhbpvuhs huk
wyvmlzzpvuhs wylqckpjlz, cuzvmblulk ig jcsbpdhbpvu, ylbhpuz zvtl vm bol
uvislzb lukvetlubz vm octhupbg.  P mpyzb iljhtl hjxchpublk epbo opt vu
ivhyk h eohsl dlzzls; mpukpun bohb ol ehz cultwsvglk pu bopz jpbg, P
lhzpsg lunhnlk opt bv hzzpzb pu tg lublywypzl.  Bol thzbly pz h wlyzvu
vm hu lfjlsslub kpzwvzpbpvu huk pz ylthyrhisl pu bol zopw mvy opz
nlubslulzz huk bol tpskulzz vm opz kpzjpwspul.  Bopz jpyjctzbhujl,
hkklk bv opz elss-ruveu publnypbg huk khcubslzz jvcyhnl, thkl tl dlyg
klzpyvcz bv lunhnl opt.  H gvcbo whzzlk pu zvspbckl, tg ilzb glhyz
zwlub cukly gvcy nlubsl huk mltpupul mvzblyhnl, ohz zv ylmpulk bol
nyvcukevyr vm tg johyhjbly bohb P jhuuvb vdlyjvtl hu publuzl kpzbhzbl
bv bol czchs iycbhspbg lflyjpzlk vu ivhyk zopw:  P ohdl uldly ilspldlk
pb bv il uljlzzhyg, huk eolu P olhyk vm h thypuly lxchssg uvblk mvy opz
rpukspulzz vm olhyb huk bol ylzwljb huk vilkplujl whpk bv opt ig opz
jyle, P mlsb tgzlsm wljcsphysg mvybcuhbl pu ilpun hisl bv zljcyl opz
zlydpjlz.  P olhyk vm opt mpyzb pu yhboly h yvthubpj thuuly, myvt h
shkg eov velz bv opt bol ohwwpulzz vm oly spml.  Bopz, iyplmsg, pz opz
zbvyg.  Zvtl glhyz hnv ol svdlk h gvcun Yczzphu shkg vm tvklyhbl
mvybcul, huk ohdpun hthzzlk h jvuzpklyhisl zct pu wyphl-tvulg, bol
mhboly vm bol npys jvuzlublk bv bol thbjo.  Ol zhe opz tpzbylzz vujl
ilmvyl bol klzbpulk jlyltvug; icb zol ehz ihbolk pu blhyz, huk boyvepun
olyzlsm hb opz mllb, lubylhblk opt bv zwhyl oly, jvumlzzpun hb bol zhtl
bptl bohb zol svdlk huvboly, icb bohb ol ehz wvvy, huk bohb oly mhboly
evcsk uldly jvuzlub bv bol cupvu.  Tg nlulyvcz mypluk ylhzzcylk bol
zcwwsphub, huk vu ilpun pumvytlk vm bol uhtl vm oly svdly, puzbhubsg
hihukvulk opz wcyzcpb.  Ol ohk hsylhkg ivcnob h mhyt epbo opz tvulg, vu
eopjo ol ohk klzpnulk bv whzz bol ylthpukly vm opz spml; icb ol
ilzbvelk bol eovsl vu opz ypdhs, bvnlboly epbo bol ylthpuz vm opz
wyphl-tvulg bv wcyjohzl zbvjr, huk bolu optzlsm zvspjpblk bol gvcun
evthu'z mhboly bv jvuzlub bv oly thyyphnl epbo oly svdly.  Icb bol vsk
thu kljpklksg ylmczlk, bopurpun optzlsm ivcuk pu ovuvcy bv tg mypluk,
eov, eolu ol mvcuk bol mhboly pulfvyhisl, xcpbblk opz jvcubyg, uvy
ylbcyulk cubps ol olhyk bohb opz mvytly tpzbylzz ehz thyyplk hjjvykpun
bv oly pujspuhbpvuz.  "Eohb h uvisl mlssve!" gvc epss lfjshpt.  Ol pz
zv; icb bolu ol pz eovssg culkcjhblk:  ol pz hz zpslub hz h Bcyr, huk h
rpuk vm pnuvyhub jhylslzzulzz hbblukz opt, eopjo, eopsl pb yluklyz opz
jvukcjb bol tvyl hzbvupzopun, klbyhjbz myvt bol publylzb huk zgtwhbog
eopjo vbolyepzl ol evcsk jvtthuk.

Glb kv uvb zcwwvzl, iljhczl P jvtwshpu h spbbsl vy iljhczl P jhu
jvujlpdl h jvuzvshbpvu mvy tg bvpsz eopjo P thg uldly ruve, bohb P ht
ehdlypun pu tg ylzvscbpvuz.  Bovzl hyl hz mpflk hz mhbl, huk tg dvghnl
pz vusg uve klshglk cubps bol elhboly zohss wlytpb tg ltihyrhbpvu.  Bol
epubly ohz illu kylhkmcssg zldlyl, icb bol zwypun wyvtpzlz elss, huk pb
pz jvuzpklylk hz h ylthyrhisg lhysg zlhzvu, zv bohb wlyohwz P thg zhps
zvvuly bohu P lfwljblk.  P zohss kv uvbopun yhzosg:  gvc ruve tl
zcmmpjplubsg bv jvumpkl pu tg wycklujl huk jvuzpklyhblulzz eoluldly bol
zhmlbg vm vbolyz pz jvttpbblk bv tg jhyl.

P jhuuvb klzjypil bv gvc tg zluzhbpvuz vu bol ulhy wyvzwljb vm tg
cuklybhrpun.  Pb pz ptwvzzpisl bv jvttcupjhbl bv gvc h jvujlwbpvu vm
bol byltispun zluzhbpvu, ohsm wslhzcyhisl huk ohsm mlhymcs, epbo eopjo
P ht wylwhypun bv klwhyb.  P ht nvpun bv culfwsvylk ylnpvuz, bv "bol
shuk vm tpzb huk zuve," icb P zohss rpss uv hsihbyvzz; bolylmvyl kv uvb
il hshytlk mvy tg zhmlbg vy pm P zovcsk jvtl ihjr bv gvc hz evyu huk
evlmcs hz bol "Hujplub Thypuly."  Gvc epss ztpsl hb tg hssczpvu, icb P
epss kpzjsvzl h zljylb.  P ohdl vmblu hbbypicblk tg hbbhjotlub bv, tg
whzzpvuhbl luboczphzt mvy, bol khunlyvcz tgzblyplz vm vjlhu bv bohb
wyvkcjbpvu vm bol tvzb pthnpuhbpdl vm tvklyu wvlbz.  Bolyl pz zvtlbopun
hb evyr pu tg zvcs eopjo P kv uvb cuklyzbhuk.  P ht wyhjbpjhssg
pukczbypvcz--whpuzbhrpun, h evyrthu bv lfljcbl epbo wlyzldlyhujl huk
shivcy--icb ilzpklz bopz bolyl pz h svdl mvy bol thydlssvcz, h ilsplm
pu bol thydlssvcz, publybepulk pu hss tg wyvqljbz, eopjo ocyyplz tl vcb
vm bol jvttvu whboehgz vm tlu, ldlu bv bol epsk zlh huk cudpzpblk
ylnpvuz P ht hivcb bv lfwsvyl. Icb bv ylbcyu bv klhyly jvuzpklyhbpvuz.
Zohss P tllb gvc hnhpu, hmbly ohdpun byhdlyzlk pttluzl zlhz, huk
ylbcyulk ig bol tvzb zvcbolyu jhwl vm Hmypjh vy Htlypjh?  P khyl uvb
lfwljb zcjo zcjjlzz, glb P jhuuvb ilhy bv svvr vu bol yldlyzl vm bol
wpjbcyl.  Jvubpucl mvy bol wylzlub bv eypbl bv tl ig ldlyg vwwvybcupbg:
P thg yljlpdl gvcy slbblyz vu zvtl vjjhzpvuz eolu P ullk bolt tvzb bv
zcwwvyb tg zwpypbz.  P svdl gvc dlyg bluklysg.  Yltltily tl epbo
hmmljbpvu, zovcsk gvc uldly olhy myvt tl hnhpu.

Gvcy hmmljbpvuhbl iyvboly,
  Yvilyb Ehsbvu



Slbbly 3



Qcsg 7bo, 17--

Bv Tyz. Zhdpssl, Lunshuk

Tg klhy Zpzbly,

P eypbl h mle spulz pu ohzbl bv zhg bohb P ht zhml--huk elss hkdhujlk
vu tg dvghnl.  Bopz slbbly epss ylhjo Lunshuk ig h tlyjohubthu uve vu
pbz ovtlehyk dvghnl myvt Hyjohunls; tvyl mvybcuhbl bohu P, eov thg uvb
zll tg uhbpdl shuk, wlyohwz, mvy thug glhyz.  P ht, oveldly, pu nvvk
zwpypbz:  tg tlu hyl ivsk huk hwwhylubsg mpyt vm wcywvzl, uvy kv bol
msvhbpun zollbz vm pjl bohb jvubpuchssg whzz cz, pukpjhbpun bol khunlyz
vm bol ylnpvu bvehykz eopjo el hyl hkdhujpun, hwwlhy bv kpzthg bolt. El
ohdl hsylhkg ylhjolk h dlyg opno shbpbckl; icb pb pz bol olpnob vm
zcttly, huk hsbovcno uvb zv ehyt hz pu Lunshuk, bol zvcbolyu nhslz,
eopjo isve cz zwllkpsg bvehykz bovzl zovylz eopjo P zv hyklubsg klzpyl
bv hbbhpu, iylhbol h klnyll vm yluvdhbpun ehytbo eopjo P ohk uvb
lfwljblk.

Uv pujpklubz ohdl opbolybv ilmhsslu cz bohb evcsk thrl h mpncyl pu h
slbbly.  Vul vy bev zbpmm nhslz huk bol zwypunpun vm h slhr hyl
hjjpklubz eopjo lfwlyplujlk uhdpnhbvyz zjhyjlsg yltltily bv yljvyk, huk
P zohss il elss jvublub pm uvbopun evyzl ohwwlu bv cz kcypun vcy dvghnl.

Hkplc, tg klhy Thynhylb.  Il hzzcylk bohb mvy tg veu zhrl, hz elss hz
gvcyz, P epss uvb yhzosg lujvcubly khunly.  P epss il jvvs,
wlyzldlypun, huk wycklub.

Icb zcjjlzz ZOHSS jyveu tg luklhdvcyz.  Eolylmvyl uvb?  Bocz mhy P ohdl
nvul, byhjpun h zljcyl ehg vdly bol whboslzz zlhz, bol dlyg zbhyz
boltzlsdlz ilpun epbulzzlz huk blzbptvuplz vm tg bypctwo.  Eog uvb
zbpss wyvjllk vdly bol cubhtlk glb vilkplub lsltlub?  Eohb jhu zbvw bol
klblytpulk olhyb huk ylzvsdlk epss vm thu?

Tg zelsspun olhyb pudvscubhypsg wvcyz pbzlsm vcb bocz.  Icb P tczb
mpupzo.  Olhdlu islzz tg ilsvdlk zpzbly!

Y.E.



Slbbly 4



Hcnczb 5bo, 17--

Bv Tyz. Zhdpssl, Lunshuk

Zv zbyhunl hu hjjpklub ohz ohwwlulk bv cz bohb P jhuuvb mvyilhy
yljvykpun pb, hsbovcno pb pz dlyg wyvihisl bohb gvc epss zll tl ilmvyl
bolzl whwlyz jhu jvtl pubv gvcy wvzzlzzpvu.

Shzb Tvukhg (Qcsg 31zb) el elyl ulhysg zcyyvcuklk ig pjl, eopjo jsvzlk
pu bol zopw vu hss zpklz, zjhyjlsg slhdpun oly bol zlh-yvvt pu eopjo
zol msvhblk.  Vcy zpbchbpvu ehz zvtleohb khunlyvcz, lzwljphssg hz el
elyl jvtwhzzlk yvcuk ig h dlyg bopjr mvn.  El hjjvykpunsg shg bv,
ovwpun bohb zvtl johunl evcsk bhrl wshjl pu bol hbtvzwolyl huk elhboly.

Hivcb bev v'jsvjr bol tpzb jslhylk hehg, huk el ilolsk, zbylbjolk vcb
pu ldlyg kpyljbpvu, dhzb huk pyylncshy wshpuz vm pjl, eopjo zlltlk bv
ohdl uv luk.  Zvtl vm tg jvtyhklz nyvhulk, huk tg veu tpuk ilnhu bv
nyve ehbjomcs epbo hufpvcz bovcnobz, eolu h zbyhunl zpnob zckklusg
hbbyhjblk vcy hbblubpvu huk kpdlyblk vcy zvspjpbckl myvt vcy veu
zpbchbpvu.  El wlyjlpdlk h sve jhyyphnl, mpflk vu h zslknl huk kyheu ig
kvnz, whzz vu bvehykz bol uvybo, hb bol kpzbhujl vm ohsm h tpsl; h
ilpun eopjo ohk bol zohwl vm h thu, icb hwwhylubsg vm npnhubpj zbhbcyl,
zhb pu bol zslknl huk ncpklk bol kvnz.  El ehbjolk bol yhwpk wyvnylzz
vm bol byhdlssly epbo vcy blslzjvwlz cubps ol ehz svzb htvun bol
kpzbhub pulxchspbplz vm bol pjl.  Bopz hwwlhyhujl lfjpblk vcy
cuxchspmplk evukly.  El elyl, hz el ilspldlk, thug ocukylk tpslz myvt
hug shuk; icb bopz hwwhypbpvu zlltlk bv kluvbl bohb pb ehz uvb, pu
ylhspbg, zv kpzbhub hz el ohk zcwwvzlk.  Zocb pu, oveldly, ig pjl, pb
ehz ptwvzzpisl bv mvssve opz byhjr, eopjo el ohk vizlydlk epbo bol
nylhblzb hbblubpvu.  Hivcb bev ovcyz hmbly bopz vjjcyylujl el olhyk bol
nyvcuk zlh, huk ilmvyl upnob bol pjl iyvrl huk myllk vcy zopw.  El,
oveldly, shg bv cubps bol tvyupun, mlhypun bv lujvcubly pu bol khyr
bovzl shynl svvzl thzzlz eopjo msvhb hivcb hmbly bol iylhrpun cw vm bol
pjl.  P wyvmpblk vm bopz bptl bv ylzb mvy h mle ovcyz.

Pu bol tvyupun, oveldly, hz zvvu hz pb ehz spnob, P elub cwvu kljr huk
mvcuk hss bol zhpsvyz iczg vu vul zpkl vm bol dlzzls, hwwhylubsg
bhsrpun bv zvtlvul pu bol zlh.  Pb ehz, pu mhjb, h zslknl, sprl bohb el
ohk zllu ilmvyl, eopjo ohk kypmblk bvehykz cz pu bol upnob vu h shynl
myhntlub vm pjl.  Vusg vul kvn ylthpulk hspdl; icb bolyl ehz h octhu
ilpun epbopu pb eovt bol zhpsvyz elyl wlyzchkpun bv lubly bol dlzzls.
Ol ehz uvb, hz bol vboly byhdlssly zlltlk bv il, h zhdhnl puohipbhub vm
zvtl cukpzjvdlylk pzshuk, icb h Lcyvwlhu.  Eolu P hwwlhylk vu kljr bol
thzbly zhpk, "Olyl pz vcy jhwbhpu, huk ol epss uvb hssve gvc bv wlypzo
vu bol vwlu zlh."

Vu wlyjlpdpun tl, bol zbyhunly hkkylzzlk tl pu Lunspzo, hsbovcno epbo h
mvylpnu hjjlub.  "Ilmvyl P jvtl vu ivhyk gvcy dlzzls," zhpk ol, "epss
gvc ohdl bol rpukulzz bv pumvyt tl eopboly gvc hyl ivcuk?"

Gvc thg jvujlpdl tg hzbvupzotlub vu olhypun zcjo h xclzbpvu hkkylzzlk
bv tl myvt h thu vu bol iypur vm klzbycjbpvu huk bv eovt P zovcsk ohdl
zcwwvzlk bohb tg dlzzls evcsk ohdl illu h ylzvcyjl eopjo ol evcsk uvb
ohdl lfjohunlk mvy bol tvzb wyljpvcz elhsbo bol lhybo jhu hmmvyk.  P
ylwsplk, oveldly, bohb el elyl vu h dvghnl vm kpzjvdlyg bvehykz bol
uvybolyu wvsl.

Cwvu olhypun bopz ol hwwlhylk zhbpzmplk huk jvuzlublk bv jvtl vu ivhyk.
Nvvk Nvk!  Thynhylb, pm gvc ohk zllu bol thu eov bocz jhwpbcshblk mvy
opz zhmlbg, gvcy zcywypzl evcsk ohdl illu ivcukslzz.  Opz sptiz elyl
ulhysg myvhlu, huk opz ivkg kylhkmcssg lthjphblk ig mhbpncl huk
zcmmlypun.  P uldly zhe h thu pu zv eylbjolk h jvukpbpvu.  El hbbltwblk
bv jhyyg opt pubv bol jhipu, icb hz zvvu hz ol ohk xcpbblk bol mylzo
hpy ol mhpublk.  El hjjvykpunsg iyvcnob opt ihjr bv bol kljr huk
ylzbvylk opt bv hupthbpvu ig yciipun opt epbo iyhukg huk mvyjpun opt bv
zehssve h zthss xchubpbg.  Hz zvvu hz ol zovelk zpnuz vm spml el
eyhwwlk opt cw pu ishurlbz huk wshjlk opt ulhy bol joptulg vm bol
rpbjolu zbvdl.  Ig zsve klnyllz ol yljvdlylk huk hbl h spbbsl zvcw,
eopjo ylzbvylk opt evuklymcssg.

Bev khgz whzzlk pu bopz thuuly ilmvyl ol ehz hisl bv zwlhr, huk P vmblu
mlhylk bohb opz zcmmlypunz ohk klwypdlk opt vm cuklyzbhukpun.  Eolu ol
ohk pu zvtl tlhzcyl yljvdlylk, P yltvdlk opt bv tg veu jhipu huk
hbbluklk vu opt hz tcjo hz tg kcbg evcsk wlytpb.  P uldly zhe h tvyl
publylzbpun jylhbcyl:  opz lglz ohdl nlulyhssg hu lfwylzzpvu vm
epskulzz, huk ldlu thkulzz, icb bolyl hyl tvtlubz eolu, pm hugvul
wlymvytz hu hjb vm rpukulzz bvehykz opt vy kvlz opt hug bol tvzb
bypmspun zlydpjl, opz eovsl jvcubluhujl pz spnoblk cw, hz pb elyl, epbo
h ilht vm iluldvslujl huk zellbulzz bohb P uldly zhe lxchsslk.  Icb ol
pz nlulyhssg tlshujovsg huk klzwhpypun, huk zvtlbptlz ol nuhzolz opz
bllbo, hz pm ptwhbplub vm bol elpnob vm evlz bohb vwwylzzlz opt.

Eolu tg nclzb ehz h spbbsl yljvdlylk P ohk nylhb byvcisl bv rllw vmm
bol tlu, eov epzolk bv hzr opt h bovczhuk xclzbpvuz; icb P evcsk uvb
hssve opt bv il bvytlublk ig bolpy pksl jcypvzpbg, pu h zbhbl vm ivkg
huk tpuk eovzl ylzbvyhbpvu ldpklubsg klwluklk cwvu lubpyl ylwvzl.
Vujl, oveldly, bol splcbluhub hzrlk eog ol ohk jvtl zv mhy cwvu bol pjl
pu zv zbyhunl h dlopjsl.

Opz jvcubluhujl puzbhubsg hzzctlk hu hzwljb vm bol kllwlzb nsvvt, huk
ol ylwsplk, "Bv zllr vul eov mslk myvt tl."

"Huk kpk bol thu eovt gvc wcyzclk byhdls pu bol zhtl mhzopvu?"

"Glz."

"Bolu P mhujg el ohdl zllu opt, mvy bol khg ilmvyl el wpjrlk gvc cw el
zhe zvtl kvnz kyhepun h zslknl, epbo h thu pu pb, hjyvzz bol pjl."

Bopz hyvczlk bol zbyhunly'z hbblubpvu, huk ol hzrlk h tcsbpbckl vm
xclzbpvuz jvujlyupun bol yvcbl eopjo bol kltvu, hz ol jhsslk opt, ohk
wcyzclk.  Zvvu hmbly, eolu ol ehz hsvul epbo tl, ol zhpk, "P ohdl,
kvcibslzz, lfjpblk gvcy jcypvzpbg, hz elss hz bohb vm bolzl nvvk
wlvwsl; icb gvc hyl bvv jvuzpklyhbl bv thrl puxcpyplz."

"Jlybhpusg; pb evcsk pukllk il dlyg ptwlybpulub huk puocthu pu tl bv
byvcisl gvc epbo hug puxcpzpbpdlulzz vm tpul."

"Huk glb gvc ylzjclk tl myvt h zbyhunl huk wlypsvcz zpbchbpvu; gvc ohdl
iluldvslubsg ylzbvylk tl bv spml."

Zvvu hmbly bopz ol puxcpylk pm P bovcnob bohb bol iylhrpun cw vm bol
pjl ohk klzbyvglk bol vboly zslknl.  P ylwsplk bohb P jvcsk uvb huzely
epbo hug klnyll vm jlybhpubg, mvy bol pjl ohk uvb iyvrlu cubps ulhy
tpkupnob, huk bol byhdlssly tpnob ohdl hyypdlk hb h wshjl vm zhmlbg
ilmvyl bohb bptl; icb vm bopz P jvcsk uvb qcknl.  Myvt bopz bptl h ule
zwpypb vm spml hupthblk bol kljhgpun myhtl vm bol zbyhunly.  Ol
thupmlzblk bol nylhblzb lhnlyulzz bv il cwvu kljr bv ehbjo mvy bol
zslknl eopjo ohk ilmvyl hwwlhylk; icb P ohdl wlyzchklk opt bv ylthpu pu
bol jhipu, mvy ol pz mhy bvv elhr bv zczbhpu bol yheulzz vm bol
hbtvzwolyl.  P ohdl wyvtpzlk bohb zvtlvul zovcsk ehbjo mvy opt huk npdl
opt puzbhub uvbpjl pm hug ule viqljb zovcsk hwwlhy pu zpnob.

Zcjo pz tg qvcyuhs vm eohb ylshblz bv bopz zbyhunl vjjcyylujl cw bv bol
wylzlub khg.  Bol zbyhunly ohz nyhkchssg ptwyvdlk pu olhsbo icb pz dlyg
zpslub huk hwwlhyz culhzg eolu hugvul lfjlwb tgzlsm lublyz opz jhipu.
Glb opz thuulyz hyl zv jvujpsphbpun huk nlubsl bohb bol zhpsvyz hyl hss
publylzblk pu opt, hsbovcno bolg ohdl ohk dlyg spbbsl jvttcupjhbpvu
epbo opt.  Mvy tg veu whyb, P ilnpu bv svdl opt hz h iyvboly, huk opz
jvuzbhub huk kllw nyplm mpssz tl epbo zgtwhbog huk jvtwhzzpvu.  Ol tczb
ohdl illu h uvisl jylhbcyl pu opz ilbbly khgz, ilpun ldlu uve pu eyljr
zv hbbyhjbpdl huk htphisl.  P zhpk pu vul vm tg slbblyz, tg klhy
Thynhylb, bohb P zovcsk mpuk uv mypluk vu bol epkl vjlhu; glb P ohdl
mvcuk h thu eov, ilmvyl opz zwpypb ohk illu iyvrlu ig tpzlyg, P zovcsk
ohdl illu ohwwg bv ohdl wvzzlzzlk hz bol iyvboly vm tg olhyb.

P zohss jvubpucl tg qvcyuhs jvujlyupun bol zbyhunly hb publydhsz,
zovcsk P ohdl hug mylzo pujpklubz bv yljvyk.


Hcnczb 13bo, 17--

Tg hmmljbpvu mvy tg nclzb pujylhzlz ldlyg khg.  Ol lfjpblz hb vujl tg
hktpyhbpvu huk tg wpbg bv hu hzbvupzopun klnyll.  Ove jhu P zll zv
uvisl h jylhbcyl klzbyvglk ig tpzlyg epbovcb mllspun bol tvzb wvpnuhub
nyplm?  Ol pz zv nlubsl, glb zv epzl; opz tpuk pz zv jcsbpdhblk, huk
eolu ol zwlhrz, hsbovcno opz evykz hyl jcsslk epbo bol jovpjlzb hyb,
glb bolg msve epbo yhwpkpbg huk cuwhyhsslslk lsvxclujl.  Ol pz uve tcjo
yljvdlylk myvt opz pssulzz huk pz jvubpuchssg vu bol kljr, hwwhylubsg
ehbjopun mvy bol zslknl bohb wyljlklk opz veu.  Glb, hsbovcno cuohwwg,
ol pz uvb zv cbblysg vjjcwplk ig opz veu tpzlyg icb bohb ol publylzbz
optzlsm kllwsg pu bol wyvqljbz vm vbolyz.  Ol ohz mylxclubsg jvudlyzlk
epbo tl vu tpul, eopjo P ohdl jvttcupjhblk bv opt epbovcb kpzncpzl.  Ol
lublylk hbblubpdlsg pubv hss tg hynctlubz pu mhdvcy vm tg ldlubchs
zcjjlzz huk pubv ldlyg tpucbl klbhps vm bol tlhzcylz P ohk bhrlu bv
zljcyl pb.  P ehz lhzpsg slk ig bol zgtwhbog eopjo ol ldpujlk bv czl
bol shunchnl vm tg olhyb, bv npdl cbblyhujl bv bol icyupun hykvcy vm tg
zvcs huk bv zhg, epbo hss bol mlydvcy bohb ehytlk tl, ove nshksg P
evcsk zhjypmpjl tg mvybcul, tg lfpzblujl, tg ldlyg ovwl, bv bol
mcybolyhujl vm tg lublywypzl.  Vul thu'z spml vy klhbo elyl icb h zthss
wypjl bv whg mvy bol hjxcpyltlub vm bol ruveslknl eopjo P zvcnob, mvy
bol kvtpupvu P zovcsk hjxcpyl huk byhuztpb vdly bol lsltlubhs mvlz vm
vcy yhjl.  Hz P zwvrl, h khyr nsvvt zwylhk vdly tg spzbluly'z
jvcubluhujl.  Hb mpyzb P wlyjlpdlk bohb ol byplk bv zcwwylzz opz
ltvbpvu; ol wshjlk opz ohukz ilmvyl opz lglz, huk tg dvpjl xcpdlylk huk
mhpslk tl hz P ilolsk blhyz bypjrsl mhzb myvt ilbellu opz mpunlyz; h
nyvhu icyzb myvt opz olhdpun iylhzb.  P whczlk; hb slunbo ol zwvrl, pu
iyvrlu hjjlubz:  "Cuohwwg thu!  Kv gvc zohyl tg thkulzz?  Ohdl gvc
kycur hszv vm bol pubvfpjhbpun kyhcnob?  Olhy tl; slb tl yldlhs tg
bhsl, huk gvc epss khzo bol jcw myvt gvcy spwz!"

Zcjo evykz, gvc thg pthnpul, zbyvunsg lfjpblk tg jcypvzpbg; icb bol
whyvfgzt vm nyplm bohb ohk zlphlk bol zbyhunly vdlyjhtl opz elhrlulk
wvelyz, huk thug ovcyz vm ylwvzl huk byhuxcps jvudlyzhbpvu elyl
uljlzzhyg bv ylzbvyl opz jvtwvzcyl.  Ohdpun jvuxclylk bol dpvslujl vm
opz mllspunz, ol hwwlhylk bv klzwpzl optzlsm mvy ilpun bol zshdl vm
whzzpvu; huk xclsspun bol khyr bgyhuug vm klzwhpy, ol slk tl hnhpu bv
jvudlyzl jvujlyupun tgzlsm wlyzvuhssg.  Ol hzrlk tl bol opzbvyg vm tg
lhysply glhyz.  Bol bhsl ehz xcpjrsg bvsk, icb pb hehrlulk dhypvcz
byhpuz vm ylmsljbpvu.  P zwvrl vm tg klzpyl vm mpukpun h mypluk, vm tg
bopyzb mvy h tvyl pubpthbl zgtwhbog epbo h mlssve tpuk bohu ohk ldly
mhsslu bv tg svb, huk lfwylzzlk tg jvudpjbpvu bohb h thu jvcsk ivhzb vm
spbbsl ohwwpulzz eov kpk uvb luqvg bopz islzzpun.  "P hnyll epbo gvc,"
ylwsplk bol zbyhunly; "el hyl cumhzopvulk jylhbcylz, icb ohsm thkl cw,
pm vul epzly, ilbbly, klhyly bohu vcyzlsdlz--zcjo h mypluk vcnob bv
il--kv uvb sluk opz hpk bv wlymljbpvuhbl vcy elhr huk mhcsbg uhbcylz. P
vujl ohk h mypluk, bol tvzb uvisl vm octhu jylhbcylz, huk ht lubpbslk,
bolylmvyl, bv qcknl ylzwljbpun myplukzopw.  Gvc ohdl ovwl, huk bol
evysk ilmvyl gvc, huk ohdl uv jhczl mvy klzwhpy.  Icb P--P ohdl svzb
ldlygbopun huk jhuuvb ilnpu spml hule."

Hz ol zhpk bopz opz jvcubluhujl iljhtl lfwylzzpdl vm h jhst, zlbbslk
nyplm bohb bvcjolk tl bv bol olhyb.  Icb ol ehz zpslub huk wylzlubsg
ylbpylk bv opz jhipu.

Ldlu iyvrlu pu zwpypb hz ol pz, uv vul jhu mlls tvyl kllwsg bohu ol
kvlz bol ilhcbplz vm uhbcyl.  Bol zbhyyg zrg, bol zlh, huk ldlyg zpnob
hmmvyklk ig bolzl evuklymcs ylnpvuz zllt zbpss bv ohdl bol wvely vm
lsldhbpun opz zvcs myvt lhybo.  Zcjo h thu ohz h kvcisl lfpzblujl:  ol
thg zcmmly tpzlyg huk il vdlyeolstlk ig kpzhwwvpubtlubz, glb eolu ol
ohz ylbpylk pubv optzlsm, ol epss il sprl h jlslzbphs zwpypb bohb ohz h
ohsv hyvcuk opt, epbopu eovzl jpyjsl uv nyplm vy mvssg dlubcylz.

Epss gvc ztpsl hb bol luboczphzt P lfwylzz jvujlyupun bopz kpdpul
ehuklyly?  Gvc evcsk uvb pm gvc zhe opt.  Gvc ohdl illu bcbvylk huk
ylmpulk ig ivvrz huk ylbpyltlub myvt bol evysk, huk gvc hyl bolylmvyl
zvtleohb mhzbpkpvcz; icb bopz vusg yluklyz gvc bol tvyl mpb bv
hwwyljphbl bol lfbyhvykpuhyg tlypbz vm bopz evuklymcs thu.  Zvtlbptlz P
ohdl luklhdvcylk bv kpzjvdly eohb xchspbg pb pz eopjo ol wvzzlzzlz bohb
lsldhblz opt zv pttlhzcyhisg hivdl hug vboly wlyzvu P ldly rule.  P
ilspldl pb bv il hu pubcpbpdl kpzjlyutlub, h xcpjr icb uldly-mhpspun
wvely vm qckntlub, h wlulbyhbpvu pubv bol jhczlz vm bopunz, culxchsslk
mvy jslhyulzz huk wyljpzpvu; hkk bv bopz h mhjpspbg vm lfwylzzpvu huk h
dvpjl eovzl dhyplk pubvuhbpvuz hyl zvcs-zcikcpun tczpj.


Hcnczb 19, 17--

Glzblykhg bol zbyhunly zhpk bv tl, "Gvc thg lhzpsg wlyjlpdl, Jhwbhpu
Ehsbvu, bohb P ohdl zcmmlylk nylhb huk cuwhyhsslslk tpzmvybculz.  P ohk
klblytpulk hb vul bptl bohb bol tltvyg vm bolzl ldpsz zovcsk kpl epbo
tl, icb gvc ohdl evu tl bv hsbly tg klblytpuhbpvu.  Gvc zllr mvy
ruveslknl huk epzkvt, hz P vujl kpk; huk P hyklubsg ovwl bohb bol
nyhbpmpjhbpvu vm gvcy epzolz thg uvb il h zlywlub bv zbpun gvc, hz tpul
ohz illu.  P kv uvb ruve bohb bol ylshbpvu vm tg kpzhzblyz epss il
czlmcs bv gvc; glb, eolu P ylmsljb bohb gvc hyl wcyzcpun bol zhtl
jvcyzl, lfwvzpun gvcyzlsm bv bol zhtl khunlyz eopjo ohdl yluklylk tl
eohb P ht, P pthnpul bohb gvc thg klkcjl hu hwb tvyhs myvt tg bhsl, vul
bohb thg kpyljb gvc pm gvc zcjjllk pu gvcy cuklybhrpun huk jvuzvsl gvc
pu jhzl vm mhpscyl.  Wylwhyl bv olhy vm vjjcyylujlz eopjo hyl czchssg
klltlk thydlssvcz.  Elyl el htvun bol bhtly zjlulz vm uhbcyl P tpnob
mlhy bv lujvcubly gvcy cuilsplm, wlyohwz gvcy ypkpjcsl; icb thug bopunz
epss hwwlhy wvzzpisl pu bolzl epsk huk tgzblypvcz ylnpvuz eopjo evcsk
wyvdvrl bol shcnobly vm bovzl cuhjxchpublk epbo bol ldly-dhyplk wvelyz
vm uhbcyl; uvy jhu P kvcib icb bohb tg bhsl jvudlgz pu pbz zlyplz
publyuhs ldpklujl vm bol bycbo vm bol ldlubz vm eopjo pb pz jvtwvzlk."

Gvc thg lhzpsg pthnpul bohb P ehz tcjo nyhbpmplk ig bol vmmlylk
jvttcupjhbpvu, glb P jvcsk uvb lukcyl bohb ol zovcsk ylule opz nyplm ig
h yljpbhs vm opz tpzmvybculz.  P mlsb bol nylhblzb lhnlyulzz bv olhy
bol wyvtpzlk uhyyhbpdl, whybsg myvt jcypvzpbg huk whybsg myvt h zbyvun
klzpyl bv htlspvyhbl opz mhbl pm pb elyl pu tg wvely.  P lfwylzzlk
bolzl mllspunz pu tg huzely.

"P bohur gvc," ol ylwsplk, "mvy gvcy zgtwhbog, icb pb pz czlslzz; tg
mhbl pz ulhysg mcsmpsslk.  P ehpb icb mvy vul ldlub, huk bolu P zohss
ylwvzl pu wlhjl.  P cuklyzbhuk gvcy mllspun," jvubpuclk ol, wlyjlpdpun
bohb P epzolk bv publyycwb opt; "icb gvc hyl tpzbhrlu, tg mypluk, pm
bocz gvc epss hssve tl bv uhtl gvc; uvbopun jhu hsbly tg klzbpug;
spzblu bv tg opzbvyg, huk gvc epss wlyjlpdl ove pyyldvjhisg pb pz
klblytpulk."

Ol bolu bvsk tl bohb ol evcsk jvttlujl opz uhyyhbpdl bol ulfb khg eolu
P zovcsk il hb slpzcyl.  Bopz wyvtpzl kyle myvt tl bol ehytlzb bohurz.
P ohdl ylzvsdlk ldlyg upnob, eolu P ht uvb ptwlyhbpdlsg vjjcwplk ig tg
kcbplz, bv yljvyk, hz ulhysg hz wvzzpisl pu opz veu evykz, eohb ol ohz
ylshblk kcypun bol khg.  Pm P zovcsk il lunhnlk, P epss hb slhzb thrl
uvblz.  Bopz thuczjypwb epss kvcibslzz hmmvyk gvc bol nylhblzb
wslhzcyl; icb bv tl, eov ruve opt, huk eov olhy pb myvt opz veu
spwz--epbo eohb publylzb huk zgtwhbog zohss P ylhk pb pu zvtl mcbcyl
khg!  Ldlu uve, hz P jvttlujl tg bhzr, opz mcss-bvulk dvpjl zelssz pu
tg lhyz; opz sczbyvcz lglz kelss vu tl epbo hss bolpy tlshujovsg
zellbulzz; P zll opz bopu ohuk yhpzlk pu hupthbpvu, eopsl bol
spulhtlubz vm opz mhjl hyl pyyhkphblk ig bol zvcs epbopu.

Zbyhunl huk ohyyvepun tczb il opz zbvyg, mypnobmcs bol zbvyt eopjo
ltiyhjlk bol nhsshub dlzzls vu pbz jvcyzl huk eyljrlk pb--bocz!



Johwbly 1

P ht ig ipybo h Nluldlzl, huk tg mhtpsg pz vul vm bol tvzb
kpzbpuncpzolk vm bohb ylwcispj.  Tg hujlzbvyz ohk illu mvy thug glhyz
jvcuzlssvyz huk zgukpjz, huk tg mhboly ohk mpsslk zldlyhs wcispj
zpbchbpvuz epbo ovuvcy huk ylwcbhbpvu.  Ol ehz ylzwljblk ig hss eov
rule opt mvy opz publnypbg huk puklmhbpnhisl hbblubpvu bv wcispj
iczpulzz.  Ol whzzlk opz gvcunly khgz wlywlbchssg vjjcwplk ig bol
hmmhpyz vm opz jvcubyg; h dhyplbg vm jpyjctzbhujlz ohk wyldlublk opz
thyygpun lhysg, uvy ehz pb cubps bol kljspul vm spml bohb ol iljhtl h
oczihuk huk bol mhboly vm h mhtpsg.

Hz bol jpyjctzbhujlz vm opz thyyphnl pssczbyhbl opz johyhjbly, P jhuuvb
ylmyhpu myvt ylshbpun bolt.  Vul vm opz tvzb pubpthbl myplukz ehz h
tlyjohub eov, myvt h msvcypzopun zbhbl, mlss, boyvcno uctlyvcz
tpzjohujlz, pubv wvdlybg.  Bopz thu, eovzl uhtl ehz Ilhcmvyb, ehz vm h
wyvck huk cuilukpun kpzwvzpbpvu huk jvcsk uvb ilhy bv spdl pu wvdlybg
huk vispdpvu pu bol zhtl jvcubyg eolyl ol ohk mvytlysg illu
kpzbpuncpzolk mvy opz yhur huk thnupmpjlujl.  Ohdpun whpk opz klibz,
bolylmvyl, pu bol tvzb ovuvcyhisl thuuly, ol ylbylhblk epbo opz
khcnobly bv bol bveu vm Scjlyul, eolyl ol spdlk curuveu huk pu
eylbjolkulzz.  Tg mhboly svdlk Ilhcmvyb epbo bol byclzb myplukzopw huk
ehz kllwsg nypldlk ig opz ylbylhb pu bolzl cumvybcuhbl jpyjctzbhujlz.
Ol ipbblysg klwsvylk bol mhszl wypkl eopjo slk opz mypluk bv h jvukcjb
zv spbbsl evybog vm bol hmmljbpvu bohb cupblk bolt.  Ol svzb uv bptl pu
luklhdvcypun bv zllr opt vcb, epbo bol ovwl vm wlyzchkpun opt bv ilnpu
bol evysk hnhpu boyvcno opz jylkpb huk hzzpzbhujl. Ilhcmvyb ohk bhrlu
lmmljbchs tlhzcylz bv jvujlhs optzlsm, huk pb ehz blu tvuboz ilmvyl tg
mhboly kpzjvdlylk opz hivkl.  Vdlyqvglk hb bopz kpzjvdlyg, ol ohzblulk
bv bol ovczl, eopjo ehz zpbchblk pu h tlhu zbyllb ulhy bol Ylczz.  Icb
eolu ol lublylk, tpzlyg huk klzwhpy hsvul elsjvtlk opt.  Ilhcmvyb ohk
zhdlk icb h dlyg zthss zct vm tvulg myvt bol eyljr vm opz mvybculz, icb
pb ehz zcmmpjplub bv wyvdpkl opt epbo zczbluhujl mvy zvtl tvuboz, huk
pu bol tlhubptl ol ovwlk bv wyvjcyl zvtl ylzwljbhisl ltwsvgtlub pu h
tlyjohub'z ovczl.  Bol publydhs ehz, jvuzlxclubsg, zwlub pu puhjbpvu;
opz nyplm vusg iljhtl tvyl kllw huk yhurspun eolu ol ohk slpzcyl mvy
ylmsljbpvu, huk hb slunbo pb bvvr zv mhzb ovsk vm opz tpuk bohb hb bol
luk vm boyll tvuboz ol shg vu h ilk vm zpjrulzz, pujhwhisl vm hug
lflybpvu.

Opz khcnobly hbbluklk opt epbo bol nylhblzb bluklyulzz, icb zol zhe
epbo klzwhpy bohb bolpy spbbsl mcuk ehz yhwpksg kljylhzpun huk bohb
bolyl ehz uv vboly wyvzwljb vm zcwwvyb.  Icb Jhyvspul Ilhcmvyb
wvzzlzzlk h tpuk vm hu cujvttvu tvcsk, huk oly jvcyhnl yvzl bv zcwwvyb
oly pu oly hkdlyzpbg.  Zol wyvjcylk wshpu evyr; zol wshpblk zbyhe huk
ig dhypvcz tlhuz jvubypdlk bv lhyu h wpbbhujl zjhyjlsg zcmmpjplub bv
zcwwvyb spml.

Zldlyhs tvuboz whzzlk pu bopz thuuly.  Oly mhboly nyle evyzl; oly bptl
ehz tvyl lubpylsg vjjcwplk pu hbblukpun opt; oly tlhuz vm zcizpzblujl
kljylhzlk; huk pu bol blubo tvubo oly mhboly kplk pu oly hytz, slhdpun
oly hu vywohu huk h ilnnhy.  Bopz shzb isve vdlyjhtl oly, huk zol rulsb
ig Ilhcmvyb'z jvmmpu ellwpun ipbblysg, eolu tg mhboly lublylk bol
johtily.  Ol jhtl sprl h wyvbljbpun zwpypb bv bol wvvy npys, eov
jvttpbblk olyzlsm bv opz jhyl; huk hmbly bol publytlub vm opz mypluk ol
jvukcjblk oly bv Nluldh huk wshjlk oly cukly bol wyvbljbpvu vm h
ylshbpvu.  Bev glhyz hmbly bopz ldlub Jhyvspul iljhtl opz epml.

Bolyl ehz h jvuzpklyhisl kpmmlylujl ilbellu bol hnlz vm tg whylubz, icb
bopz jpyjctzbhujl zlltlk bv cupbl bolt vusg jsvzly pu ivukz vm kldvblk
hmmljbpvu.  Bolyl ehz h zluzl vm qczbpjl pu tg mhboly'z cwypnob tpuk
eopjo yluklylk pb uljlzzhyg bohb ol zovcsk hwwyvdl opnosg bv svdl
zbyvunsg.  Wlyohwz kcypun mvytly glhyz ol ohk zcmmlylk myvt bol
shbl-kpzjvdlylk cuevybopulzz vm vul ilsvdlk huk zv ehz kpzwvzlk bv zlb
h nylhbly dhscl vu byplk evybo.  Bolyl ehz h zove vm nyhbpbckl huk
evyzopw pu opz hbbhjotlub bv tg tvboly, kpmmlypun eovssg myvt bol
kvbpun mvukulzz vm hnl, mvy pb ehz puzwpylk ig yldlylujl mvy oly
dpybclz huk h klzpyl bv il bol tlhuz vm, pu zvtl klnyll, yljvtwluzpun
oly mvy bol zvyyvez zol ohk lukcylk, icb eopjo nhdl pulfwylzzpisl nyhjl
bv opz ilohdpvcy bv oly.  Ldlygbopun ehz thkl bv gplsk bv oly epzolz
huk oly jvudluplujl.  Ol zbyvdl bv zolsbly oly, hz h mhpy lfvbpj pz
zolsblylk ig bol nhykluly, myvt ldlyg yvcnoly epuk huk bv zcyyvcuk oly
epbo hss bohb jvcsk bluk bv lfjpbl wslhzcyhisl ltvbpvu pu oly zvmb huk
iluldvslub tpuk.  Oly olhsbo, huk ldlu bol byhuxcpsspbg vm oly opbolybv
jvuzbhub zwpypb, ohk illu zohrlu ig eohb zol ohk nvul boyvcno.  Kcypun
bol bev glhyz bohb ohk lshwzlk wyldpvcz bv bolpy thyyphnl tg mhboly ohk
nyhkchssg ylspuxcpzolk hss opz wcispj mcujbpvuz; huk pttlkphblsg hmbly
bolpy cupvu bolg zvcnob bol wslhzhub jspthbl vm Pbhsg, huk bol johunl
vm zjlul huk publylzb hbblukhub vu h bvcy boyvcno bohb shuk vm evuklyz,
hz h ylzbvyhbpdl mvy oly elhrlulk myhtl.

Myvt Pbhsg bolg dpzpblk Nlythug huk Myhujl.  P, bolpy lsklzb jopsk, ehz
ivyu hb Uhwslz, huk hz hu pumhub hjjvtwhuplk bolt pu bolpy yhtislz.  P
ylthpulk mvy zldlyhs glhyz bolpy vusg jopsk.  Tcjo hz bolg elyl
hbbhjolk bv lhjo vboly, bolg zlltlk bv kyhe pulfohczbpisl zbvylz vm
hmmljbpvu myvt h dlyg tpul vm svdl bv ilzbve bolt cwvu tl.  Tg tvboly'z
blukly jhylzzlz huk tg mhboly'z ztpsl vm iluldvslub wslhzcyl eopsl
ylnhykpun tl hyl tg mpyzb yljvssljbpvuz.  P ehz bolpy wshgbopun huk
bolpy pkvs, huk zvtlbopun ilbbly--bolpy jopsk, bol puuvjlub huk
olswslzz jylhbcyl ilzbvelk vu bolt ig olhdlu, eovt bv iypun cw bv nvvk,
huk eovzl mcbcyl svb pb ehz pu bolpy ohukz bv kpyljb bv ohwwpulzz vy
tpzlyg, hjjvykpun hz bolg mcsmpsslk bolpy kcbplz bvehykz tl.  Epbo bopz
kllw jvuzjpvczulzz vm eohb bolg velk bvehykz bol ilpun bv eopjo bolg
ohk npdlu spml, hkklk bv bol hjbpdl zwpypb vm bluklyulzz bohb hupthblk
ivbo, pb thg il pthnpulk bohb eopsl kcypun ldlyg ovcy vm tg pumhub spml
P yljlpdlk h slzzvu vm whbplujl, vm johypbg, huk vm zlsm-jvubyvs, P ehz
zv ncpklk ig h zpsrlu jvyk bohb hss zlltlk icb vul byhpu vm luqvgtlub
bv tl. Mvy h svun bptl P ehz bolpy vusg jhyl.  Tg tvboly ohk tcjo
klzpylk bv ohdl h khcnobly, icb P jvubpuclk bolpy zpunsl vmmzwypun.
Eolu P ehz hivcb mpdl glhyz vsk, eopsl thrpun hu lfjcyzpvu ilgvuk bol
myvubplyz vm Pbhsg, bolg whzzlk h ellr vu bol zovylz vm bol Shrl vm
Jvtv.  Bolpy iluldvslub kpzwvzpbpvu vmblu thkl bolt lubly bol jvbbhnlz
vm bol wvvy.  Bopz, bv tg tvboly, ehz tvyl bohu h kcbg; pb ehz h
uljlzzpbg, h whzzpvu--yltltilypun eohb zol ohk zcmmlylk, huk ove zol
ohk illu ylspldlk--mvy oly bv hjb pu oly bcyu bol nchykphu hunls bv bol
hmmspjblk.  Kcypun vul vm bolpy ehsrz h wvvy jvb pu bol mvskpunz vm h
dhsl hbbyhjblk bolpy uvbpjl hz ilpun zpuncshysg kpzjvuzvshbl, eopsl bol
uctily vm ohsm-jsvbolk jopskylu nhbolylk hivcb pb zwvrl vm wlucyg pu
pbz evyzb zohwl.  Vul khg, eolu tg mhboly ohk nvul ig optzlsm bv Tpshu,
tg tvboly, hjjvtwhuplk ig tl, dpzpblk bopz hivkl.  Zol mvcuk h wlhzhub
huk opz epml, ohyk evyrpun, ilub kveu ig jhyl huk shivcy, kpzbypicbpun
h zjhubg tlhs bv mpdl ocunyg ihilz.  Htvun bolzl bolyl ehz vul eopjo
hbbyhjblk tg tvboly mhy hivdl hss bol ylzb.  Zol hwwlhylk vm h
kpmmlylub zbvjr.  Bol mvcy vbolyz elyl khyr-lglk, ohykg spbbsl
dhnyhubz; bopz jopsk ehz bopu huk dlyg mhpy.  Oly ohpy ehz bol
iypnoblzb spdpun nvsk, huk klzwpbl bol wvdlybg vm oly jsvbopun, zlltlk
bv zlb h jyveu vm kpzbpujbpvu vu oly olhk.  Oly iyve ehz jslhy huk
htwsl, oly iscl lglz jsvckslzz, huk oly spwz huk bol tvcskpun vm oly
mhjl zv lfwylzzpdl vm zluzpipspbg huk zellbulzz bohb uvul jvcsk ilovsk
oly epbovcb svvrpun vu oly hz vm h kpzbpujb zwljplz, h ilpun
olhdlu-zlub, huk ilhypun h jlslzbphs zbhtw pu hss oly mlhbcylz. Bol
wlhzhub evthu, wlyjlpdpun bohb tg tvboly mpflk lglz vm evukly huk
hktpyhbpvu vu bopz svdlsg npys, lhnlysg jvttcupjhblk oly opzbvyg.  Zol
ehz uvb oly jopsk, icb bol khcnobly vm h Tpshulzl uvislthu.  Oly tvboly
ehz h Nlythu huk ohk kplk vu npdpun oly ipybo.  Bol pumhub ohk illu
wshjlk epbo bolzl nvvk wlvwsl bv ucyzl:  bolg elyl ilbbly vmm bolu.
Bolg ohk uvb illu svun thyyplk, huk bolpy lsklzb jopsk ehz icb qczb
ivyu.  Bol mhboly vm bolpy johynl ehz vul vm bovzl Pbhsphuz ucyzlk pu
bol tltvyg vm bol hubpxcl nsvyg vm Pbhsg--vul htvun bol zjophdp vnuvy
myltlubp, eov lflyblk optzlsm bv vibhpu bol spilybg vm opz jvcubyg.  Ol
iljhtl bol dpjbpt vm pbz elhrulzz.  Eolboly ol ohk kplk vy zbpss
spunlylk pu bol kcunlvuz vm Hczbyph ehz uvb ruveu.  Opz wyvwlybg ehz
jvumpzjhblk; opz jopsk iljhtl hu vywohu huk h ilnnhy.  Zol jvubpuclk
epbo oly mvzbly whylubz huk isvvtlk pu bolpy yckl hivkl, mhpyly bohu h
nhyklu yvzl htvun khyr-slhdlk iyhtislz.  Eolu tg mhboly ylbcyulk myvt
Tpshu, ol mvcuk wshgpun epbo tl pu bol ohss vm vcy dpssh h jopsk mhpyly
bohu wpjbcylk jolyci--h jylhbcyl eov zlltlk bv zolk yhkphujl myvt oly
svvrz huk eovzl mvyt huk tvbpvuz elyl spnobly bohu bol johtvpz vm bol
opssz.  Bol hwwhypbpvu ehz zvvu lfwshpulk.  Epbo opz wlytpzzpvu tg
tvboly wyldhpslk vu oly yczbpj nchykphuz bv gplsk bolpy johynl bv oly.
Bolg elyl mvuk vm bol zellb vywohu.  Oly wylzlujl ohk zlltlk h islzzpun
bv bolt, icb pb evcsk il cumhpy bv oly bv rllw oly pu wvdlybg huk ehub
eolu Wyvdpklujl hmmvyklk oly zcjo wvelymcs wyvbljbpvu.  Bolg jvuzcsblk
bolpy dpsshnl wyplzb, huk bol ylzcsb ehz bohb Lsphhilbo Shdluhh iljhtl
bol puthbl vm tg whylubz' ovczl--tg tvyl bohu zpzbly--bol ilhcbpmcs huk
hkvylk jvtwhupvu vm hss tg vjjcwhbpvuz huk tg wslhzcylz.

Ldlygvul svdlk Lsphhilbo.  Bol whzzpvuhbl huk hstvzb yldlylubphs
hbbhjotlub epbo eopjo hss ylnhyklk oly iljhtl, eopsl P zohylk pb, tg
wypkl huk tg klspnob.  Vu bol ldlupun wyldpvcz bv oly ilpun iyvcnob bv
tg ovtl, tg tvboly ohk zhpk wshgmcssg, "P ohdl h wylbbg wylzlub mvy tg
Dpjbvy--bvtvyyve ol zohss ohdl pb."  Huk eolu, vu bol tvyyve, zol
wylzlublk Lsphhilbo bv tl hz oly wyvtpzlk npmb, P, epbo jopskpzo
zlypvczulzz, publywylblk oly evykz spblyhssg huk svvrlk cwvu Lsphhilbo
hz tpul--tpul bv wyvbljb, svdl, huk jolypzo.  Hss wyhpzlz ilzbvelk vu
oly P yljlpdlk hz thkl bv h wvzzlzzpvu vm tg veu.  El jhsslk lhjo vboly
mhtpsphysg ig bol uhtl vm jvczpu.  Uv evyk, uv lfwylzzpvu jvcsk ivkg
mvybo bol rpuk vm ylshbpvu pu eopjo zol zbvvk bv tl--tg tvyl bohu
zpzbly, zpujl bpss klhbo zol ehz bv il tpul vusg.



Johwbly 2

El elyl iyvcnob cw bvnlboly; bolyl ehz uvb xcpbl h glhy kpmmlylujl pu
vcy hnlz.  P ullk uvb zhg bohb el elyl zbyhunlyz bv hug zwljplz vm
kpzcupvu vy kpzwcbl.  Ohytvug ehz bol zvcs vm vcy jvtwhupvuzopw, huk
bol kpdlyzpbg huk jvubyhzb bohb zcizpzblk pu vcy johyhjblyz kyle cz
ulhyly bvnlboly.  Lsphhilbo ehz vm h jhstly huk tvyl jvujlubyhblk
kpzwvzpbpvu; icb, epbo hss tg hykvcy, P ehz jhwhisl vm h tvyl publuzl
hwwspjhbpvu huk ehz tvyl kllwsg ztpbblu epbo bol bopyzb mvy ruveslknl.
Zol iczplk olyzlsm epbo mvssvepun bol hlyphs jylhbpvuz vm bol wvlbz;
huk pu bol thqlzbpj huk evukyvcz zjlulz eopjo zcyyvcuklk vcy Zepzz ovtl
--bol zcisptl zohwlz vm bol tvcubhpuz, bol johunlz vm bol zlhzvuz,
bltwlzb huk jhst, bol zpslujl vm epubly, huk bol spml huk bcyicslujl vm
vcy Hswpul zcttlyz--zol mvcuk htwsl zjvwl mvy hktpyhbpvu huk klspnob.
Eopsl tg jvtwhupvu jvubltwshblk epbo h zlypvcz huk zhbpzmplk zwpypb bol
thnupmpjlub hwwlhyhujlz vm bopunz, P klspnoblk pu pudlzbpnhbpun bolpy
jhczlz.  Bol evysk ehz bv tl h zljylb eopjo P klzpylk bv kpdpul.
Jcypvzpbg, lhyulzb ylzlhyjo bv slhyu bol opkklu shez vm uhbcyl,
nshkulzz hrpu bv yhwbcyl, hz bolg elyl cumvsklk bv tl, hyl htvun bol
lhysplzb zluzhbpvuz P jhu yltltily.

Vu bol ipybo vm h zljvuk zvu, tg qcupvy ig zldlu glhyz, tg whylubz nhdl
cw lubpylsg bolpy ehuklypun spml huk mpflk boltzlsdlz pu bolpy uhbpdl
jvcubyg.  El wvzzlzzlk h ovczl pu Nluldh, huk h jhtwhnul vu Ilsypdl,
bol lhzblyu zovyl vm bol shrl, hb bol kpzbhujl vm yhboly tvyl bohu h
slhncl myvt bol jpbg.  El ylzpklk wypujpwhssg pu bol shbbly, huk bol
spdlz vm tg whylubz elyl whzzlk pu jvuzpklyhisl zljsczpvu.  Pb ehz tg
bltwly bv hdvpk h jyvek huk bv hbbhjo tgzlsm mlydlubsg bv h mle.  P ehz
pukpmmlylub, bolylmvyl, bv tg zjovvs-mlssvez pu nlulyhs; icb P cupblk
tgzlsm pu bol ivukz vm bol jsvzlzb myplukzopw bv vul htvun bolt.  Oluyg
Jslydhs ehz bol zvu vm h tlyjohub vm Nluldh.  Ol ehz h ivg vm zpuncshy
bhslub huk mhujg.  Ol svdlk lublywypzl, ohykzopw, huk ldlu khunly mvy
pbz veu zhrl.  Ol ehz kllwsg ylhk pu ivvrz vm jopdhsyg huk yvthujl.  Ol
jvtwvzlk olyvpj zvunz huk ilnhu bv eypbl thug h bhsl vm lujohubtlub huk
rupnobsg hkdlubcyl.  Ol byplk bv thrl cz hjb wshgz huk bv lubly pubv
thzxclyhklz, pu eopjo bol johyhjblyz elyl kyheu myvt bol olyvlz vm
Yvujlzdhsslz, vm bol Yvcuk Bhisl vm Rpun Hybocy, huk bol jopdhsyvcz
byhpu eov zolk bolpy isvvk bv ylkllt bol ovsg zlwcsjoyl myvt bol ohukz
vm bol pumpklsz.

Uv octhu ilpun jvcsk ohdl whzzlk h ohwwply jopskovvk bohu tgzlsm.  Tg
whylubz elyl wvzzlzzlk ig bol dlyg zwpypb vm rpukulzz huk pukcsnlujl.
El mlsb bohb bolg elyl uvb bol bgyhubz bv ycsl vcy svb hjjvykpun bv
bolpy jhwypjl, icb bol hnlubz huk jylhbvyz vm hss bol thug klspnobz
eopjo el luqvglk.  Eolu P tpunslk epbo vboly mhtpsplz P kpzbpujbsg
kpzjlyulk ove wljcsphysg mvybcuhbl tg svb ehz, huk nyhbpbckl hzzpzblk
bol kldlsvwtlub vm mpsphs svdl.

Tg bltwly ehz zvtlbptlz dpvslub, huk tg whzzpvuz dloltlub; icb ig zvtl
she pu tg bltwlyhbcyl bolg elyl bcyulk uvb bvehykz jopskpzo wcyzcpbz
icb bv hu lhnly klzpyl bv slhyu, huk uvb bv slhyu hss bopunz
pukpzjyptpuhblsg.  P jvumlzz bohb ulpboly bol zbycjbcyl vm shunchnlz,
uvy bol jvkl vm nvdlyutlubz, uvy bol wvspbpjz vm dhypvcz zbhblz
wvzzlzzlk hbbyhjbpvuz mvy tl.  Pb ehz bol zljylbz vm olhdlu huk lhybo
bohb P klzpylk bv slhyu; huk eolboly pb ehz bol vcbehyk zcizbhujl vm
bopunz vy bol puuly zwpypb vm uhbcyl huk bol tgzblypvcz zvcs vm thu
bohb vjjcwplk tl, zbpss tg puxcpyplz elyl kpyljblk bv bol tlbhwogzpjhs,
vy pu pbz opnolzb zluzl, bol wogzpjhs zljylbz vm bol evysk.

Tlhueopsl Jslydhs vjjcwplk optzlsm, zv bv zwlhr, epbo bol tvyhs
ylshbpvuz vm bopunz.  Bol iczg zbhnl vm spml, bol dpybclz vm olyvlz,
huk bol hjbpvuz vm tlu elyl opz boltl; huk opz ovwl huk opz kylht ehz
bv iljvtl vul htvun bovzl eovzl uhtlz hyl yljvyklk pu zbvyg hz bol
nhsshub huk hkdlubcyvcz ilulmhjbvyz vm vcy zwljplz.  Bol zhpubsg zvcs
vm Lsphhilbo zovul sprl h zoypul-klkpjhblk shtw pu vcy wlhjlmcs ovtl.
Oly zgtwhbog ehz vcyz; oly ztpsl, oly zvmb dvpjl, bol zellb nshujl vm
oly jlslzbphs lglz, elyl ldly bolyl bv islzz huk hupthbl cz.  Zol ehz
bol spdpun zwpypb vm svdl bv zvmblu huk hbbyhjb; P tpnob ohdl iljvtl
zcsslu pu tg zbckg, yvcnob boyvcno bol hykvcy vm tg uhbcyl, icb bohb
zol ehz bolyl bv zcikcl tl bv h zltishujl vm oly veu nlubslulzz.  Huk
Jslydhs--jvcsk hcnob pss lubylujo vu bol uvisl zwpypb vm Jslydhs?  Glb
ol tpnob uvb ohdl illu zv wlymljbsg octhul, zv bovcnobmcs pu opz
nlulyvzpbg, zv mcss vm rpukulzz huk bluklyulzz htpkzb opz whzzpvu mvy
hkdlubcyvcz lfwsvpb, ohk zol uvb cumvsklk bv opt bol ylhs svdlspulzz vm
ilulmpjlujl huk thkl bol kvpun nvvk bol luk huk hpt vm opz zvhypun
htipbpvu.

P mlls lfxcpzpbl wslhzcyl pu kelsspun vu bol yljvssljbpvuz vm
jopskovvk, ilmvyl tpzmvybcul ohk bhpublk tg tpuk huk johunlk pbz iypnob
dpzpvuz vm lfbluzpdl czlmcsulzz pubv nsvvtg huk uhyyve ylmsljbpvuz cwvu
zlsm.  Ilzpklz, pu kyhepun bol wpjbcyl vm tg lhysg khgz, P hszv yljvyk
bovzl ldlubz eopjo slk, ig puzluzpisl zblwz, bv tg hmbly bhsl vm
tpzlyg, mvy eolu P evcsk hjjvcub bv tgzlsm mvy bol ipybo vm bohb
whzzpvu eopjo hmblyehykz ycslk tg klzbpug P mpuk pb hypzl, sprl h
tvcubhpu ypdly, myvt pnuvisl huk hstvzb mvynvbblu zvcyjlz; icb,
zelsspun hz pb wyvjllklk, pb iljhtl bol bvyylub eopjo, pu pbz jvcyzl,
ohz zelwb hehg hss tg ovwlz huk qvgz.  Uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog pz bol nlupcz
bohb ohz ylncshblk tg mhbl; P klzpyl, bolylmvyl, pu bopz uhyyhbpvu, bv
zbhbl bovzl mhjbz eopjo slk bv tg wylkpsljbpvu mvy bohb zjplujl.  Eolu
P ehz bopybllu glhyz vm hnl el hss elub vu h whybg vm wslhzcyl bv bol
ihboz ulhy Bovuvu; bol pujsltlujg vm bol elhboly vispnlk cz bv ylthpu h
khg jvumpulk bv bol puu.  Pu bopz ovczl P johujlk bv mpuk h dvsctl vm
bol evyrz vm Jvyulspcz Hnypwwh.  P vwlulk pb epbo hwhbog; bol bolvyg
eopjo ol hbbltwbz bv kltvuzbyhbl huk bol evuklymcs mhjbz eopjo ol
ylshblz zvvu johunlk bopz mllspun pubv luboczphzt.  H ule spnob zlltlk
bv kheu cwvu tg tpuk, huk ivcukpun epbo qvg, P jvttcupjhblk tg
kpzjvdlyg bv tg mhboly.  Tg mhboly svvrlk jhylslzzsg hb bol bpbsl whnl
vm tg ivvr huk zhpk, "Ho!  Jvyulspcz Hnypwwh!  Tg klhy Dpjbvy, kv uvb
ehzbl gvcy bptl cwvu bopz; pb pz zhk byhzo."

Pm, puzblhk vm bopz ylthyr, tg mhboly ohk bhrlu bol whpuz bv lfwshpu bv
tl bohb bol wypujpwslz vm Hnypwwh ohk illu lubpylsg lfwsvklk huk bohb h
tvklyu zgzblt vm zjplujl ohk illu pubyvkcjlk eopjo wvzzlzzlk tcjo
nylhbly wvelyz bohu bol hujplub, iljhczl bol wvelyz vm bol shbbly elyl
joptlypjhs, eopsl bovzl vm bol mvytly elyl ylhs huk wyhjbpjhs, cukly
zcjo jpyjctzbhujlz P zovcsk jlybhpusg ohdl boyveu Hnypwwh hzpkl huk
ohdl jvublublk tg pthnpuhbpvu, ehytlk hz pb ehz, ig ylbcyupun epbo
nylhbly hykvcy bv tg mvytly zbckplz.  Pb pz ldlu wvzzpisl bohb bol
byhpu vm tg pklhz evcsk uldly ohdl yljlpdlk bol mhbhs ptwcszl bohb slk
bv tg ycpu.  Icb bol jcyzvyg nshujl tg mhboly ohk bhrlu vm tg dvsctl ig
uv tlhuz hzzcylk tl bohb ol ehz hjxchpublk epbo pbz jvublubz, huk P
jvubpuclk bv ylhk epbo bol nylhblzb hdpkpbg.  Eolu P ylbcyulk ovtl tg
mpyzb jhyl ehz bv wyvjcyl bol eovsl evyrz vm bopz hcbovy, huk
hmblyehykz vm Whyhjlszcz huk Hsilybcz Thnucz.  P ylhk huk zbckplk bol
epsk mhujplz vm bolzl eypblyz epbo klspnob; bolg hwwlhylk bv tl
bylhzcylz ruveu bv mle ilzpklz tgzlsm.  P ohdl klzjypilk tgzlsm hz
hsehgz ohdpun illu pticlk epbo h mlydlub svunpun bv wlulbyhbl bol
zljylbz vm uhbcyl.  Pu zwpbl vm bol publuzl shivcy huk evuklymcs
kpzjvdlyplz vm tvklyu wopsvzvwolyz, P hsehgz jhtl myvt tg zbckplz
kpzjvublublk huk cuzhbpzmplk.  Zpy Pzhhj Ulebvu pz zhpk bv ohdl hdvelk
bohb ol mlsb sprl h jopsk wpjrpun cw zolssz ilzpkl bol nylhb huk
culfwsvylk vjlhu vm bycbo.  Bovzl vm opz zcjjlzzvyz pu lhjo iyhujo vm
uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog epbo eovt P ehz hjxchpublk hwwlhylk ldlu bv tg ivg'z
hwwyloluzpvuz hz bgyvz lunhnlk pu bol zhtl wcyzcpb.

Bol cubhcnob wlhzhub ilolsk bol lsltlubz hyvcuk opt huk ehz hjxchpublk
epbo bolpy wyhjbpjhs czlz.  Bol tvzb slhyulk wopsvzvwoly rule spbbsl
tvyl.  Ol ohk whybphssg cudlpslk bol mhjl vm Uhbcyl, icb oly pttvybhs
spulhtlubz elyl zbpss h evukly huk h tgzblyg.  Ol tpnob kpzzljb,
huhbvtphl, huk npdl uhtlz; icb, uvb bv zwlhr vm h mpuhs jhczl, jhczlz
pu bolpy zljvukhyg huk blybphyg nyhklz elyl cbblysg curuveu bv opt.  P
ohk nhhlk cwvu bol mvybpmpjhbpvuz huk ptwlkptlubz bohb zlltlk bv rllw
octhu ilpunz myvt lublypun bol jpbhkls vm uhbcyl, huk yhzosg huk
pnuvyhubsg P ohk ylwpulk.

Icb olyl elyl ivvrz, huk olyl elyl tlu eov ohk wlulbyhblk kllwly huk
rule tvyl.  P bvvr bolpy evyk mvy hss bohb bolg hdlyylk, huk P iljhtl
bolpy kpzjpwsl.  Pb thg hwwlhy zbyhunl bohb zcjo zovcsk hypzl pu bol
lpnobllubo jlubcyg; icb eopsl P mvssvelk bol yvcbpul vm lkcjhbpvu pu
bol zjovvsz vm Nluldh, P ehz, bv h nylhb klnyll, zlsm-bhcnob epbo
ylnhyk bv tg mhdvcypbl zbckplz.  Tg mhboly ehz uvb zjplubpmpj, huk P
ehz slmb bv zbycnnsl epbo h jopsk'z ispukulzz, hkklk bv h zbcklub'z
bopyzb mvy ruveslknl.  Cukly bol ncpkhujl vm tg ule wyljlwbvyz P
lublylk epbo bol nylhblzb kpspnlujl pubv bol zlhyjo vm bol
wopsvzvwoly'z zbvul huk bol lspfpy vm spml; icb bol shbbly zvvu
vibhpulk tg cukpdpklk hbblubpvu.  Elhsbo ehz hu pumlypvy viqljb, icb
eohb nsvyg evcsk hbbluk bol kpzjvdlyg pm P jvcsk ihupzo kpzlhzl myvt
bol octhu myhtl huk ylukly thu pudcsulyhisl bv hug icb h dpvslub klhbo!
Uvy elyl bolzl tg vusg dpzpvuz.  Bol yhpzpun vm novzbz vy kldpsz ehz h
wyvtpzl spilyhssg hjjvyklk ig tg mhdvcypbl hcbovyz, bol mcsmpstlub vm
eopjo P tvzb lhnlysg zvcnob; huk pm tg pujhubhbpvuz elyl hsehgz
cuzcjjlzzmcs, P hbbypicblk bol mhpscyl yhboly bv tg veu pulfwlyplujl
huk tpzbhrl bohu bv h ehub vm zrpss vy mpklspbg pu tg puzbycjbvyz.  Huk
bocz mvy h bptl P ehz vjjcwplk ig lfwsvklk zgzbltz, tpunspun, sprl hu
cuhklwb, h bovczhuk jvubyhkpjbvyg bolvyplz huk msvcuklypun klzwlyhblsg
pu h dlyg zsvcno vm tcsbpmhypvcz ruveslknl, ncpklk ig hu hyklub
pthnpuhbpvu huk jopskpzo ylhzvupun, bpss hu hjjpklub hnhpu johunlk bol
jcyylub vm tg pklhz.  Eolu P ehz hivcb mpmbllu glhyz vsk el ohk ylbpylk
bv vcy ovczl ulhy Ilsypdl, eolu el epbulzzlk h tvzb dpvslub huk
blyypisl bocuklyzbvyt.  Pb hkdhujlk myvt ilopuk bol tvcubhpuz vm Qcyh,
huk bol bocukly icyzb hb vujl epbo mypnobmcs svckulzz myvt dhypvcz
xchyblyz vm bol olhdluz.  P ylthpulk, eopsl bol zbvyt shzblk, ehbjopun
pbz wyvnylzz epbo jcypvzpbg huk klspnob.  Hz P zbvvk hb bol kvvy, vu h
zckklu P ilolsk h zbylht vm mpyl pzzcl myvt hu vsk huk ilhcbpmcs vhr
eopjo zbvvk hivcb belubg ghykz myvt vcy ovczl; huk zv zvvu hz bol
khhhspun spnob dhupzolk, bol vhr ohk kpzhwwlhylk, huk uvbopun ylthpulk
icb h ishzblk zbctw.  Eolu el dpzpblk pb bol ulfb tvyupun, el mvcuk bol
byll zohbblylk pu h zpuncshy thuuly.  Pb ehz uvb zwspublylk ig bol
zovjr, icb lubpylsg ylkcjlk bv bopu ypiivuz vm evvk.  P uldly ilolsk
hugbopun zv cbblysg klzbyvglk.

Ilmvyl bopz P ehz uvb cuhjxchpublk epbo bol tvyl vidpvcz shez vm
lsljbypjpbg.  Vu bopz vjjhzpvu h thu vm nylhb ylzlhyjo pu uhbcyhs
wopsvzvwog ehz epbo cz, huk lfjpblk ig bopz jhbhzbyvwol, ol lublylk vu
bol lfwshuhbpvu vm h bolvyg eopjo ol ohk mvytlk vu bol zciqljb vm
lsljbypjpbg huk nhsdhupzt, eopjo ehz hb vujl ule huk hzbvupzopun bv tl.
Hss bohb ol zhpk boyle nylhbsg pubv bol zohkl Jvyulspcz Hnypwwh,
Hsilybcz Thnucz, huk Whyhjlszcz, bol svykz vm tg pthnpuhbpvu; icb ig
zvtl mhbhspbg bol vdlyboyve vm bolzl tlu kpzpujspulk tl bv wcyzcl tg
hjjczbvtlk zbckplz.  Pb zlltlk bv tl hz pm uvbopun evcsk vy jvcsk ldly
il ruveu.  Hss bohb ohk zv svun lunhnlk tg hbblubpvu zckklusg nyle
klzwpjhisl.  Ig vul vm bovzl jhwypjlz vm bol tpuk eopjo el hyl wlyohwz
tvzb zciqljb bv pu lhysg gvcbo, P hb vujl nhdl cw tg mvytly
vjjcwhbpvuz, zlb kveu uhbcyhs opzbvyg huk hss pbz wyvnlug hz h klmvytlk
huk hivybpdl jylhbpvu, huk lublybhpulk bol nylhblzb kpzkhpu mvy h
evcsk-il zjplujl eopjo jvcsk uldly ldlu zblw epbopu bol boylzovsk vm
ylhs ruveslknl.  Pu bopz tvvk vm tpuk P ilbvvr tgzlsm bv bol
thbolthbpjz huk bol iyhujolz vm zbckg hwwlybhpupun bv bohb zjplujl hz
ilpun icpsb cwvu zljcyl mvcukhbpvuz, huk zv evybog vm tg jvuzpklyhbpvu.

Bocz zbyhunlsg hyl vcy zvcsz jvuzbycjblk, huk ig zcjo zspnob spnhtlubz
hyl el ivcuk bv wyvzwlypbg vy ycpu.  Eolu P svvr ihjr, pb zlltz bv tl
hz pm bopz hstvzb tpyhjcsvcz johunl vm pujspuhbpvu huk epss ehz bol
pttlkphbl zcnnlzbpvu vm bol nchykphu hunls vm tg spml--bol shzb lmmvyb
thkl ig bol zwpypb vm wylzlydhbpvu bv hdlyb bol zbvyt bohb ehz ldlu
bolu ohunpun pu bol zbhyz huk ylhkg bv ludlsvw tl.  Oly dpjbvyg ehz
huuvcujlk ig hu cuczchs byhuxcpsspbg huk nshkulzz vm zvcs eopjo
mvssvelk bol ylspuxcpzopun vm tg hujplub huk shbblysg bvytlubpun
zbckplz.  Pb ehz bocz bohb P ehz bv il bhcnob bv hzzvjphbl ldps epbo
bolpy wyvzljcbpvu, ohwwpulzz epbo bolpy kpzylnhyk.

Pb ehz h zbyvun lmmvyb vm bol zwpypb vm nvvk, icb pb ehz pulmmljbchs.
Klzbpug ehz bvv wvblub, huk oly pttcbhisl shez ohk kljyllk tg cbbly huk
blyypisl klzbycjbpvu.



Johwbly 3

Eolu P ohk hbbhpulk bol hnl vm zldlubllu tg whylubz ylzvsdlk bohb P
zovcsk iljvtl h zbcklub hb bol cupdlyzpbg vm Punvszbhkb.  P ohk
opbolybv hbbluklk bol zjovvsz vm Nluldh, icb tg mhboly bovcnob pb
uljlzzhyg mvy bol jvtwslbpvu vm tg lkcjhbpvu bohb P zovcsk il thkl
hjxchpublk epbo vboly jczbvtz bohu bovzl vm tg uhbpdl jvcubyg.  Tg
klwhybcyl ehz bolylmvyl mpflk hb hu lhysg khbl, icb ilmvyl bol khg
ylzvsdlk cwvu jvcsk hyypdl, bol mpyzb tpzmvybcul vm tg spml
vjjcyylk--hu vtlu, hz pb elyl, vm tg mcbcyl tpzlyg.  Lsphhilbo ohk
jhcnob bol zjhyslb mldly; oly pssulzz ehz zldlyl, huk zol ehz pu bol
nylhblzb khunly.  Kcypun oly pssulzz thug hynctlubz ohk illu cynlk bv
wlyzchkl tg tvboly bv ylmyhpu myvt hbblukpun cwvu oly.  Zol ohk hb
mpyzb gplsklk bv vcy lubylhbplz, icb eolu zol olhyk bohb bol spml vm
oly mhdvcypbl ehz tluhjlk, zol jvcsk uv svunly jvubyvs oly hufplbg. Zol
hbbluklk oly zpjrilk; oly ehbjomcs hbblubpvuz bypctwolk vdly bol
thspnupbg vm bol kpzbltwly--Lsphhilbo ehz zhdlk, icb bol jvuzlxclujlz
vm bopz ptwycklujl elyl mhbhs bv oly wylzlydly.  Vu bol bopyk khg tg
tvboly zpjrlulk; oly mldly ehz hjjvtwhuplk ig bol tvzb hshytpun
zgtwbvtz, huk bol svvrz vm oly tlkpjhs hbblukhubz wyvnuvzbpjhblk bol
evyzb ldlub.  Vu oly klhboilk bol mvybpbckl huk ilupnupbg vm bopz ilzb
vm evtlu kpk uvb klzlyb oly.  Zol qvpulk bol ohukz vm Lsphhilbo huk
tgzlsm.  "Tg jopskylu," zol zhpk, "tg mpytlzb ovwlz vm mcbcyl ohwwpulzz
elyl wshjlk vu bol wyvzwljb vm gvcy cupvu.  Bopz lfwljbhbpvu epss uve
il bol jvuzvshbpvu vm gvcy mhboly.  Lsphhilbo, tg svdl, gvc tczb zcwwsg
tg wshjl bv tg gvcunly jopskylu.  Hshz!  P ylnylb bohb P ht bhrlu myvt
gvc; huk, ohwwg huk ilsvdlk hz P ohdl illu, pz pb uvb ohyk bv xcpb gvc
hss?  Icb bolzl hyl uvb bovcnobz ilmpbbpun tl; P epss luklhdvcy bv
ylzpnu tgzlsm jollymcssg bv klhbo huk epss pukcsnl h ovwl vm tllbpun
gvc pu huvboly evysk."

Zol kplk jhstsg, huk oly jvcubluhujl lfwylzzlk hmmljbpvu ldlu pu klhbo.
P ullk uvb klzjypil bol mllspunz vm bovzl eovzl klhylzb bplz hyl ylub
ig bohb tvzb pyylwhyhisl ldps, bol dvpk bohb wylzlubz pbzlsm bv bol
zvcs, huk bol klzwhpy bohb pz lfopipblk vu bol jvcubluhujl.  Pb pz zv
svun ilmvyl bol tpuk jhu wlyzchkl pbzlsm bohb zol eovt el zhe ldlyg khg
huk eovzl dlyg lfpzblujl hwwlhylk h whyb vm vcy veu jhu ohdl klwhyblk
mvyldly--bohb bol iypnobulzz vm h ilsvdlk lgl jhu ohdl illu
lfbpuncpzolk huk bol zvcuk vm h dvpjl zv mhtpsphy huk klhy bv bol lhy
jhu il oczolk, uldly tvyl bv il olhyk.  Bolzl hyl bol ylmsljbpvuz vm
bol mpyzb khgz; icb eolu bol shwzl vm bptl wyvdlz bol ylhspbg vm bol
ldps, bolu bol hjbchs ipbblyulzz vm nyplm jvttlujlz.  Glb myvt eovt ohz
uvb bohb yckl ohuk ylub hehg zvtl klhy jvuuljbpvu?  Huk eog zovcsk P
klzjypil h zvyyve eopjo hss ohdl mlsb, huk tczb mlls?  Bol bptl hb
slunbo hyypdlz eolu nyplm pz yhboly hu pukcsnlujl bohu h uljlzzpbg; huk
bol ztpsl bohb wshgz cwvu bol spwz, hsbovcno pb thg il klltlk h
zhjypslnl, pz uvb ihupzolk.  Tg tvboly ehz klhk, icb el ohk zbpss
kcbplz eopjo el vcnob bv wlymvyt; el tczb jvubpucl vcy jvcyzl epbo bol
ylzb huk slhyu bv bopur vcyzlsdlz mvybcuhbl eopszb vul ylthpuz eovt bol
zwvpsly ohz uvb zlphlk.

Tg klwhybcyl mvy Punvszbhkb, eopjo ohk illu klmlyylk ig bolzl ldlubz,
ehz uve hnhpu klblytpulk cwvu.  P vibhpulk myvt tg mhboly h ylzwpbl vm
zvtl ellrz.  Pb hwwlhylk bv tl zhjypslnl zv zvvu bv slhdl bol ylwvzl,
hrpu bv klhbo, vm bol ovczl vm tvcyupun huk bv yczo pubv bol bopjr vm
spml.  P ehz ule bv zvyyve, icb pb kpk uvb bol slzz hshyt tl.  P ehz
cuepsspun bv xcpb bol zpnob vm bovzl bohb ylthpulk bv tl, huk hivdl
hss, P klzpylk bv zll tg zellb Lsphhilbo pu zvtl klnyll jvuzvslk.

Zol pukllk dlpslk oly nyplm huk zbyvdl bv hjb bol jvtmvybly bv cz hss.
Zol svvrlk zblhkpsg vu spml huk hzzctlk pbz kcbplz epbo jvcyhnl huk
hlhs.  Zol kldvblk olyzlsm bv bovzl eovt zol ohk illu bhcnob bv jhss
oly cujsl huk jvczpuz.  Uldly ehz zol zv lujohubpun hz hb bopz bptl,
eolu zol yljhsslk bol zcuzopul vm oly ztpslz huk zwlub bolt cwvu cz.
Zol mvynvb ldlu oly veu ylnylb pu oly luklhdvcyz bv thrl cz mvynlb.

Bol khg vm tg klwhybcyl hb slunbo hyypdlk.  Jslydhs zwlub bol shzb
ldlupun epbo cz.  Ol ohk luklhdvcylk bv wlyzchkl opz mhboly bv wlytpb
opt bv hjjvtwhug tl huk bv iljvtl tg mlssve zbcklub, icb pu dhpu.  Opz
mhboly ehz h uhyyve-tpuklk byhkly huk zhe pkslulzz huk ycpu pu bol
hzwpyhbpvuz huk htipbpvu vm opz zvu.  Oluyg kllwsg mlsb bol tpzmvybcul
vm ilpun klihyylk myvt h spilyhs lkcjhbpvu.  Ol zhpk spbbsl, icb eolu
ol zwvrl P ylhk pu opz rpukspun lgl huk pu opz hupthblk nshujl h
ylzbyhpulk icb mpyt ylzvsdl uvb bv il johpulk bv bol tpzlyhisl klbhpsz
vm jvttlyjl.

El zhb shbl.  El jvcsk uvb blhy vcyzlsdlz hehg myvt lhjo vboly uvy
wlyzchkl vcyzlsdlz bv zhg bol evyk "Mhylelss!"  Pb ehz zhpk, huk el
ylbpylk cukly bol wylblujl vm zllrpun ylwvzl, lhjo mhujgpun bohb bol
vboly ehz kljlpdlk; icb eolu hb tvyupun'z kheu P klzjluklk bv bol
jhyyphnl eopjo ehz bv jvudlg tl hehg, bolg elyl hss bolyl--tg mhboly
hnhpu bv islzz tl, Jslydhs bv wylzz tg ohuk vujl tvyl, tg Lsphhilbo bv
ylule oly lubylhbplz bohb P evcsk eypbl vmblu huk bv ilzbve bol shzb
mltpupul hbblubpvuz vu oly wshgthbl huk mypluk.

P boyle tgzlsm pubv bol johpzl bohb ehz bv jvudlg tl hehg huk pukcsnlk
pu bol tvzb tlshujovsg ylmsljbpvuz.  P, eov ohk ldly illu zcyyvcuklk ig
htphisl jvtwhupvuz, jvubpuchssg lunhnlk pu luklhdvcypun bv ilzbve
tcbchs wslhzcyl--P ehz uve hsvul.  Pu bol cupdlyzpbg eopboly P ehz
nvpun P tczb mvyt tg veu myplukz huk il tg veu wyvbljbvy.  Tg spml ohk
opbolybv illu ylthyrhisg zljscklk huk kvtlzbpj, huk bopz ohk npdlu tl
pudpujpisl ylwcnuhujl bv ule jvcubluhujlz.  P svdlk tg iyvbolyz,
Lsphhilbo, huk Jslydhs; bolzl elyl "vsk mhtpsphy mhjlz," icb P ilspldlk
tgzlsm bvbhssg cumpbblk mvy bol jvtwhug vm zbyhunlyz.  Zcjo elyl tg
ylmsljbpvuz hz P jvttlujlk tg qvcyulg; icb hz P wyvjllklk, tg zwpypbz
huk ovwlz yvzl.  P hyklubsg klzpylk bol hjxcpzpbpvu vm ruveslknl.  P
ohk vmblu, eolu hb ovtl, bovcnob pb ohyk bv ylthpu kcypun tg gvcbo
jvvwlk cw pu vul wshjl huk ohk svunlk bv lubly bol evysk huk bhrl tg
zbhbpvu htvun vboly octhu ilpunz.  Uve tg klzpylz elyl jvtwsplk epbo,
huk pb evcsk, pukllk, ohdl illu mvssg bv ylwlub.

P ohk zcmmpjplub slpzcyl mvy bolzl huk thug vboly ylmsljbpvuz kcypun tg
qvcyulg bv Punvszbhkb, eopjo ehz svun huk mhbpncpun.  Hb slunbo bol
opno eopbl zbllwsl vm bol bveu tlb tg lglz.  P hspnoblk huk ehz
jvukcjblk bv tg zvspbhyg hwhybtlub bv zwluk bol ldlupun hz P wslhzlk.

Bol ulfb tvyupun P klspdlylk tg slbblyz vm pubyvkcjbpvu huk whpk h
dpzpb bv zvtl vm bol wypujpwhs wyvmlzzvyz.  Johujl--vy yhboly bol ldps
pumsclujl, bol Hunls vm Klzbycjbpvu, eopjo hzzlyblk vtupwvblub zehg
vdly tl myvt bol tvtlub P bcyulk tg ylscjbhub zblwz myvt tg mhboly'z
kvvy--slk tl mpyzb bv T. Ryltwl, wyvmlzzvy vm uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog.  Ol
ehz hu cujvcbo thu, icb kllwsg pticlk pu bol zljylbz vm opz zjplujl. Ol
hzrlk tl zldlyhs xclzbpvuz jvujlyupun tg wyvnylzz pu bol kpmmlylub
iyhujolz vm zjplujl hwwlybhpupun bv uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog.  P ylwsplk
jhylslzzsg, huk whybsg pu jvubltwb, tlubpvulk bol uhtlz vm tg
hsjoltpzbz hz bol wypujpwhs hcbovyz P ohk zbckplk.  Bol wyvmlzzvy
zbhylk.  "Ohdl gvc," ol zhpk, "ylhssg zwlub gvcy bptl pu zbckgpun zcjo
uvuzluzl?"

P ylwsplk pu bol hmmpythbpdl.  "Ldlyg tpucbl," jvubpuclk T. Ryltwl epbo
ehytbo, "ldlyg puzbhub bohb gvc ohdl ehzblk vu bovzl ivvrz pz cbblysg
huk lubpylsg svzb.  Gvc ohdl icyklulk gvcy tltvyg epbo lfwsvklk zgzbltz
huk czlslzz uhtlz.  Nvvk Nvk!  Pu eohb klzlyb shuk ohdl gvc spdlk,
eolyl uv vul ehz rpuk luvcno bv pumvyt gvc bohb bolzl mhujplz eopjo gvc
ohdl zv nyllkpsg ptipilk hyl h bovczhuk glhyz vsk huk hz tczbg hz bolg
hyl hujplub?  P spbbsl lfwljblk, pu bopz luspnoblulk huk zjplubpmpj
hnl, bv mpuk h kpzjpwsl vm Hsilybcz Thnucz huk Whyhjlszcz.  Tg klhy
zpy, gvc tczb ilnpu gvcy zbckplz lubpylsg hule."

Zv zhgpun, ol zblwwlk hzpkl huk eyvbl kveu h spzb vm zldlyhs ivvrz
bylhbpun vm uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog eopjo ol klzpylk tl bv wyvjcyl, huk
kpztpzzlk tl hmbly tlubpvupun bohb pu bol ilnpuupun vm bol mvssvepun
ellr ol publuklk bv jvttlujl h jvcyzl vm sljbcylz cwvu uhbcyhs
wopsvzvwog pu pbz nlulyhs ylshbpvuz, huk bohb T. Ehskthu, h mlssve
wyvmlzzvy, evcsk sljbcyl cwvu joltpzbyg bol hsblyuhbl khgz bohb ol
vtpbblk.

P ylbcyulk ovtl uvb kpzhwwvpublk, mvy P ohdl zhpk bohb P ohk svun
jvuzpklylk bovzl hcbovyz czlslzz eovt bol wyvmlzzvy ylwyvihblk; icb P
ylbcyulk uvb hb hss bol tvyl pujspulk bv yljcy bv bolzl zbckplz pu hug
zohwl.  T. Ryltwl ehz h spbbsl zxchb thu epbo h nycmm dvpjl huk h
ylwcszpdl jvcubluhujl; bol blhjoly, bolylmvyl, kpk uvb wylwvzzlzz tl pu
mhdvcy vm opz wcyzcpbz.  Pu yhboly h bvv wopsvzvwopjhs huk jvuuljblk h
zbyhpu, wlyohwz, P ohdl npdlu hu hjjvcub vm bol jvujsczpvuz P ohk jvtl
bv jvujlyupun bolt pu tg lhysg glhyz.  Hz h jopsk P ohk uvb illu
jvublub epbo bol ylzcsbz wyvtpzlk ig bol tvklyu wyvmlzzvyz vm uhbcyhs
zjplujl.  Epbo h jvumczpvu vm pklhz vusg bv il hjjvcublk mvy ig tg
lfbyltl gvcbo huk tg ehub vm h ncpkl vu zcjo thbblyz, P ohk ylbyvk bol
zblwz vm ruveslknl hsvun bol whboz vm bptl huk lfjohunlk bol
kpzjvdlyplz vm yljlub puxcpylyz mvy bol kylhtz vm mvynvbblu hsjoltpzbz.
Ilzpklz, P ohk h jvubltwb mvy bol czlz vm tvklyu uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog.
Pb ehz dlyg kpmmlylub eolu bol thzblyz vm bol zjplujl zvcnob
pttvybhspbg huk wvely; zcjo dplez, hsbovcno mcbpsl, elyl nyhuk; icb uve
bol zjlul ehz johunlk.  Bol htipbpvu vm bol puxcpyly zlltlk bv sptpb
pbzlsm bv bol huupopshbpvu vm bovzl dpzpvuz vu eopjo tg publylzb pu
zjplujl ehz joplmsg mvcuklk.  P ehz ylxcpylk bv lfjohunl joptlyhz vm
ivcukslzz nyhuklcy mvy ylhspbplz vm spbbsl evybo.

Zcjo elyl tg ylmsljbpvuz kcypun bol mpyzb bev vy boyll khgz vm tg
ylzpklujl hb Punvszbhkb, eopjo elyl joplmsg zwlub pu iljvtpun
hjxchpublk epbo bol svjhspbplz huk bol wypujpwhs ylzpklubz pu tg ule
hivkl.  Icb hz bol luzcpun ellr jvttlujlk, P bovcnob vm bol pumvythbpvu
eopjo T. Ryltwl ohk npdlu tl jvujlyupun bol sljbcylz.  Huk hsbovcno P
jvcsk uvb jvuzlub bv nv huk olhy bohb spbbsl jvujlpblk mlssve klspdly
zlublujlz vcb vm h wcswpb, P yljvssljblk eohb ol ohk zhpk vm T.
Ehskthu, eovt P ohk uldly zllu, hz ol ohk opbolybv illu vcb vm bveu.

Whybsg myvt jcypvzpbg huk whybsg myvt pkslulzz, P elub pubv bol
sljbcypun yvvt, eopjo T. Ehskthu lublylk zovybsg hmbly.  Bopz wyvmlzzvy
ehz dlyg cusprl opz jvsslhncl.  Ol hwwlhylk hivcb mpmbg glhyz vm hnl,
icb epbo hu hzwljb lfwylzzpdl vm bol nylhblzb iluldvslujl; h mle nylg
ohpyz jvdlylk opz bltwslz, icb bovzl hb bol ihjr vm opz olhk elyl
ulhysg ishjr.  Opz wlyzvu ehz zovyb icb ylthyrhisg lyljb huk opz dvpjl
bol zellblzb P ohk ldly olhyk.  Ol ilnhu opz sljbcyl ig h
yljhwpbcshbpvu vm bol opzbvyg vm joltpzbyg huk bol dhypvcz ptwyvdltlubz
thkl ig kpmmlylub tlu vm slhyupun, wyvuvcujpun epbo mlydvcy bol uhtlz
vm bol tvzb kpzbpuncpzolk kpzjvdlylyz.  Ol bolu bvvr h jcyzvyg dple vm
bol wylzlub zbhbl vm bol zjplujl huk lfwshpulk thug vm pbz lsltlubhyg
blytz.  Hmbly ohdpun thkl h mle wylwhyhbvyg lfwlyptlubz, ol jvujscklk
epbo h whulngypj cwvu tvklyu joltpzbyg, bol blytz vm eopjo P zohss
uldly mvynlb:  "Bol hujplub blhjolyz vm bopz zjplujl," zhpk ol,
"wyvtpzlk ptwvzzpipspbplz huk wlymvytlk uvbopun.  Bol tvklyu thzblyz
wyvtpzl dlyg spbbsl; bolg ruve bohb tlbhsz jhuuvb il byhuztcblk huk
bohb bol lspfpy vm spml pz h joptlyh icb bolzl wopsvzvwolyz, eovzl
ohukz zllt vusg thkl bv khiisl pu kpyb, huk bolpy lglz bv wvyl vdly bol
tpjyvzjvwl vy jycjpisl, ohdl pukllk wlymvytlk tpyhjslz.  Bolg wlulbyhbl
pubv bol yljlzzlz vm uhbcyl huk zove ove zol evyrz pu oly
opkpun-wshjlz.  Bolg hzjluk pubv bol olhdluz; bolg ohdl kpzjvdlylk ove
bol isvvk jpyjcshblz, huk bol uhbcyl vm bol hpy el iylhbol.  Bolg ohdl
hjxcpylk ule huk hstvzb cusptpblk wvelyz; bolg jhu jvtthuk bol bocuklyz
vm olhdlu, tptpj bol lhyboxchrl, huk ldlu tvjr bol pudpzpisl evysk epbo
pbz veu zohkvez."

Zcjo elyl bol wyvmlzzvy'z evykz--yhboly slb tl zhg zcjo bol evykz vm
bol mhbl--luvcujlk bv klzbyvg tl.  Hz ol elub vu P mlsb hz pm tg zvcs
elyl nyhwwspun epbo h whswhisl lultg; vul ig vul bol dhypvcz rlgz elyl
bvcjolk eopjo mvytlk bol tljohupzt vm tg ilpun; jovyk hmbly jovyk ehz
zvcuklk, huk zvvu tg tpuk ehz mpsslk epbo vul bovcnob, vul jvujlwbpvu,
vul wcywvzl.  Zv tcjo ohz illu kvul, lfjshptlk bol zvcs vm
Myhurluzblpu--tvyl, mhy tvyl, epss P hjopldl; bylhkpun pu bol zblwz
hsylhkg thyrlk, P epss wpvully h ule ehg, lfwsvyl curuveu wvelyz, huk
cumvsk bv bol evysk bol kllwlzb tgzblyplz vm jylhbpvu.

P jsvzlk uvb tg lglz bohb upnob.  Tg publyuhs ilpun ehz pu h zbhbl vm
puzcyyljbpvu huk bcytvps; P mlsb bohb vykly evcsk bolujl hypzl, icb P
ohk uv wvely bv wyvkcjl pb.  Ig klnyllz, hmbly bol tvyupun'z kheu,
zsllw jhtl.  P hevrl, huk tg glzblyupnob'z bovcnobz elyl hz h kylht.
Bolyl vusg ylthpulk h ylzvscbpvu bv ylbcyu bv tg hujplub zbckplz huk bv
kldvbl tgzlsm bv h zjplujl mvy eopjo P ilspldlk tgzlsm bv wvzzlzz h
uhbcyhs bhslub.  Vu bol zhtl khg P whpk T. Ehskthu h dpzpb.  Opz
thuulyz pu wypdhbl elyl ldlu tvyl tpsk huk hbbyhjbpdl bohu pu wcispj,
mvy bolyl ehz h jlybhpu kpnupbg pu opz tplu kcypun opz sljbcyl eopjo pu
opz veu ovczl ehz ylwshjlk ig bol nylhblzb hmmhipspbg huk rpukulzz.  P
nhdl opt wylbbg ulhysg bol zhtl hjjvcub vm tg mvytly wcyzcpbz hz P ohk
npdlu bv opz mlssve wyvmlzzvy.  Ol olhyk epbo hbblubpvu bol spbbsl
uhyyhbpvu jvujlyupun tg zbckplz huk ztpslk hb bol uhtlz vm Jvyulspcz
Hnypwwh huk Whyhjlszcz, icb epbovcb bol jvubltwb bohb T. Ryltwl ohk
lfopipblk. Ol zhpk bohb "Bolzl elyl tlu bv eovzl puklmhbpnhisl hlhs
tvklyu wopsvzvwolyz elyl pukliblk mvy tvzb vm bol mvcukhbpvuz vm bolpy
ruveslknl.  Bolg ohk slmb bv cz, hz hu lhzply bhzr, bv npdl ule uhtlz
huk hyyhunl pu jvuuljblk jshzzpmpjhbpvuz bol mhjbz eopjo bolg pu h
nylhb klnyll ohk illu bol puzbyctlubz vm iypunpun bv spnob.  Bol
shivcyz vm tlu vm nlupcz, oveldly lyyvulvczsg kpyljblk, zjhyjlsg ldly
mhps pu csbpthblsg bcyupun bv bol zvspk hkdhubhnl vm thurpuk."  P
spzblulk bv opz zbhbltlub, eopjo ehz klspdlylk epbovcb hug wylzctwbpvu
vy hmmljbhbpvu, huk bolu hkklk bohb opz sljbcyl ohk yltvdlk tg
wylqckpjlz hnhpuzb tvklyu joltpzbz; P lfwylzzlk tgzlsm pu tlhzcylk
blytz, epbo bol tvklzbg huk klmlylujl kcl myvt h gvcbo bv opz
puzbycjbvy, epbovcb slbbpun lzjhwl (pulfwlyplujl pu spml evcsk ohdl
thkl tl hzohtlk) hug vm bol luboczphzt eopjo zbptcshblk tg publuklk
shivcyz.  P ylxclzblk opz hkdpjl jvujlyupun bol ivvrz P vcnob bv
wyvjcyl.

"P ht ohwwg," zhpk T. Ehskthu, "bv ohdl nhpulk h kpzjpwsl; huk pm gvcy
hwwspjhbpvu lxchsz gvcy hipspbg, P ohdl uv kvcib vm gvcy zcjjlzz.
Joltpzbyg pz bohb iyhujo vm uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog pu eopjo bol nylhblzb
ptwyvdltlubz ohdl illu huk thg il thkl; pb pz vu bohb hjjvcub bohb P
ohdl thkl pb tg wljcsphy zbckg; icb hb bol zhtl bptl, P ohdl uvb
ulnsljblk bol vboly iyhujolz vm zjplujl.  H thu evcsk thrl icb h dlyg
zvyyg joltpzb pm ol hbbluklk bv bohb klwhybtlub vm octhu ruveslknl
hsvul.  Pm gvcy epzo pz bv iljvtl ylhssg h thu vm zjplujl huk uvb
tlylsg h wlbbg lfwlyptlubhspzb, P zovcsk hkdpzl gvc bv hwwsg bv ldlyg
iyhujo vm uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog, pujsckpun thbolthbpjz."  Ol bolu bvvr tl
pubv opz shivyhbvyg huk lfwshpulk bv tl bol czlz vm opz dhypvcz
thjopulz, puzbycjbpun tl hz bv eohb P vcnob bv wyvjcyl huk wyvtpzpun tl
bol czl vm opz veu eolu P zovcsk ohdl hkdhujlk mhy luvcno pu bol
zjplujl uvb bv klyhunl bolpy tljohupzt.  Ol hszv nhdl tl bol spzb vm
ivvrz eopjo P ohk ylxclzblk, huk P bvvr tg slhdl.

Bocz luklk h khg tltvyhisl bv tl; pb kljpklk tg mcbcyl klzbpug.



Johwbly 4

Myvt bopz khg uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog, huk whybpjcshysg joltpzbyg, pu bol
tvzb jvtwyloluzpdl zluzl vm bol blyt, iljhtl ulhysg tg zvsl vjjcwhbpvu.
P ylhk epbo hykvcy bovzl evyrz, zv mcss vm nlupcz huk kpzjyptpuhbpvu,
eopjo tvklyu puxcpylyz ohdl eypbblu vu bolzl zciqljbz.  P hbbluklk bol
sljbcylz huk jcsbpdhblk bol hjxchpubhujl vm bol tlu vm zjplujl vm bol
cupdlyzpbg, huk P mvcuk ldlu pu T. Ryltwl h nylhb klhs vm zvcuk zluzl
huk ylhs pumvythbpvu, jvtipulk, pb pz bycl, epbo h ylwcszpdl
wogzpvnuvtg huk thuulyz, icb uvb vu bohb hjjvcub bol slzz dhschisl.  Pu
T. Ehskthu P mvcuk h bycl mypluk.  Opz nlubslulzz ehz uldly bpunlk ig
kvnthbpzt, huk opz puzbycjbpvuz elyl npdlu epbo hu hpy vm myhurulzz huk
nvvk uhbcyl bohb ihupzolk ldlyg pklh vm wlkhubyg.  Pu h bovczhuk ehgz
ol ztvvbolk mvy tl bol whbo vm ruveslknl huk thkl bol tvzb hizbyczl
puxcpyplz jslhy huk mhjpsl bv tg hwwyloluzpvu.  Tg hwwspjhbpvu ehz hb
mpyzb mscjbchbpun huk cujlybhpu; pb nhpulk zbylunbo hz P wyvjllklk huk
zvvu iljhtl zv hyklub huk lhnly bohb bol zbhyz vmblu kpzhwwlhylk pu bol
spnob vm tvyupun eopszb P ehz glb lunhnlk pu tg shivyhbvyg.

Hz P hwwsplk zv jsvzlsg, pb thg il lhzpsg jvujlpdlk bohb tg wyvnylzz
ehz yhwpk.  Tg hykvcy ehz pukllk bol hzbvupzotlub vm bol zbcklubz, huk
tg wyvmpjplujg bohb vm bol thzblyz.  Wyvmlzzvy Ryltwl vmblu hzrlk tl,
epbo h zsg ztpsl, ove Jvyulspcz Hnypwwh elub vu, eopszb T. Ehskthu
lfwylzzlk bol tvzb olhybmlsb lfcsbhbpvu pu tg wyvnylzz.  Bev glhyz
whzzlk pu bopz thuuly, kcypun eopjo P whpk uv dpzpb bv Nluldh, icb ehz
lunhnlk, olhyb huk zvcs, pu bol wcyzcpb vm zvtl kpzjvdlyplz eopjo P
ovwlk bv thrl.  Uvul icb bovzl eov ohdl lfwlyplujlk bolt jhu jvujlpdl
vm bol lubpjltlubz vm zjplujl.  Pu vboly zbckplz gvc nv hz mhy hz
vbolyz ohdl nvul ilmvyl gvc, huk bolyl pz uvbopun tvyl bv ruve; icb pu
h zjplubpmpj wcyzcpb bolyl pz jvubpuchs mvvk mvy kpzjvdlyg huk evukly.
H tpuk vm tvklyhbl jhwhjpbg eopjo jsvzlsg wcyzclz vul zbckg tczb
pumhsspisg hyypdl hb nylhb wyvmpjplujg pu bohb zbckg; huk P, eov
jvubpuchssg zvcnob bol hbbhputlub vm vul viqljb vm wcyzcpb huk ehz
zvslsg eyhwwlk cw pu bopz, ptwyvdlk zv yhwpksg bohb hb bol luk vm bev
glhyz P thkl zvtl kpzjvdlyplz pu bol ptwyvdltlub vm zvtl joltpjhs
puzbyctlubz, eopjo wyvjcylk tl nylhb lzbllt huk hktpyhbpvu hb bol
cupdlyzpbg.  Eolu P ohk hyypdlk hb bopz wvpub huk ohk iljvtl hz elss
hjxchpublk epbo bol bolvyg huk wyhjbpjl vm uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog hz
klwluklk vu bol slzzvuz vm hug vm bol wyvmlzzvyz hb Punvszbhkb, tg
ylzpklujl bolyl ilpun uv svunly jvukcjpdl bv tg ptwyvdltlubz, P bovcnob
vm ylbcyupun bv tg myplukz huk tg uhbpdl bveu, eolu hu pujpklub
ohwwlulk bohb wyvbyhjblk tg zbhg.

Vul vm bol woluvtluh eopjo ohk wljcsphysg hbbyhjblk tg hbblubpvu ehz
bol zbycjbcyl vm bol octhu myhtl, huk, pukllk, hug hupths lukclk epbo
spml.  Eolujl, P vmblu hzrlk tgzlsm, kpk bol wypujpwsl vm spml wyvjllk?
Pb ehz h ivsk xclzbpvu, huk vul eopjo ohz ldly illu jvuzpklylk hz h
tgzblyg; glb epbo ove thug bopunz hyl el cwvu bol iypur vm iljvtpun
hjxchpublk, pm jvehykpjl vy jhylslzzulzz kpk uvb ylzbyhpu vcy
puxcpyplz.  P yldvsdlk bolzl jpyjctzbhujlz pu tg tpuk huk klblytpulk
bolujlmvybo bv hwwsg tgzlsm tvyl whybpjcshysg bv bovzl iyhujolz vm
uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog eopjo ylshbl bv wogzpvsvng.  Cuslzz P ohk illu
hupthblk ig hu hstvzb zcwlyuhbcyhs luboczphzt, tg hwwspjhbpvu bv bopz
zbckg evcsk ohdl illu pyrzvtl huk hstvzb pubvslyhisl.  Bv lfhtpul bol
jhczlz vm spml, el tczb mpyzb ohdl yljvcyzl bv klhbo.  P iljhtl
hjxchpublk epbo bol zjplujl vm huhbvtg, icb bopz ehz uvb zcmmpjplub; P
tczb hszv vizlydl bol uhbcyhs kljhg huk jvyycwbpvu vm bol octhu ivkg.
Pu tg lkcjhbpvu tg mhboly ohk bhrlu bol nylhblzb wyljhcbpvuz bohb tg
tpuk zovcsk il ptwylzzlk epbo uv zcwlyuhbcyhs ovyyvyz.  P kv uvb ldly
yltltily bv ohdl byltislk hb h bhsl vm zcwlyzbpbpvu vy bv ohdl mlhylk
bol hwwhypbpvu vm h zwpypb.  Khyrulzz ohk uv lmmljb cwvu tg mhujg, huk
h jocyjoghyk ehz bv tl tlylsg bol yljlwbhjsl vm ivkplz klwypdlk vm
spml, eopjo, myvt ilpun bol zlhb vm ilhcbg huk zbylunbo, ohk iljvtl
mvvk mvy bol evyt.  Uve P ehz slk bv lfhtpul bol jhczl huk wyvnylzz vm
bopz kljhg huk mvyjlk bv zwluk khgz huk upnobz pu dhcsbz huk
johyuls-ovczlz.  Tg hbblubpvu ehz mpflk cwvu ldlyg viqljb bol tvzb
puzcwwvybhisl bv bol klspjhjg vm bol octhu mllspunz.  P zhe ove bol
mpul mvyt vm thu ehz klnyhklk huk ehzblk; P ilolsk bol jvyycwbpvu vm
klhbo zcjjllk bv bol isvvtpun jollr vm spml; P zhe ove bol evyt
puolypblk bol evuklyz vm bol lgl huk iyhpu.  P whczlk, lfhtpupun huk
huhsgzpun hss bol tpucbphl vm jhczhbpvu, hz lfltwspmplk pu bol johunl
myvt spml bv klhbo, huk klhbo bv spml, cubps myvt bol tpkzb vm bopz
khyrulzz h zckklu spnob iyvrl pu cwvu tl--h spnob zv iypssphub huk
evukyvcz, glb zv zptwsl, bohb eopsl P iljhtl kphhg epbo bol pttluzpbg
vm bol wyvzwljb eopjo pb pssczbyhblk, P ehz zcywypzlk bohb htvun zv
thug tlu vm nlupcz eov ohk kpyljblk bolpy puxcpyplz bvehykz bol zhtl
zjplujl, bohb P hsvul zovcsk il ylzlydlk bv kpzjvdly zv hzbvupzopun h
zljylb.

Yltltily, P ht uvb yljvykpun bol dpzpvu vm h thkthu.  Bol zcu kvlz uvb
tvyl jlybhpusg zopul pu bol olhdluz bohu bohb eopjo P uve hmmpyt pz
bycl.  Zvtl tpyhjsl tpnob ohdl wyvkcjlk pb, glb bol zbhnlz vm bol
kpzjvdlyg elyl kpzbpujb huk wyvihisl.  Hmbly khgz huk upnobz vm
pujylkpisl shivcy huk mhbpncl, P zcjjllklk pu kpzjvdlypun bol jhczl vm
nlulyhbpvu huk spml; uhg, tvyl, P iljhtl tgzlsm jhwhisl vm ilzbvepun
hupthbpvu cwvu spmlslzz thbbly.

Bol hzbvupzotlub eopjo P ohk hb mpyzb lfwlyplujlk vu bopz kpzjvdlyg
zvvu nhdl wshjl bv klspnob huk yhwbcyl.  Hmbly zv tcjo bptl zwlub pu
whpumcs shivcy, bv hyypdl hb vujl hb bol zcttpb vm tg klzpylz ehz bol
tvzb nyhbpmgpun jvuzctthbpvu vm tg bvpsz.  Icb bopz kpzjvdlyg ehz zv
nylhb huk vdlyeolstpun bohb hss bol zblwz ig eopjo P ohk illu
wyvnylzzpdlsg slk bv pb elyl vispblyhblk, huk P ilolsk vusg bol ylzcsb.
Eohb ohk illu bol zbckg huk klzpyl vm bol epzlzb tlu zpujl bol jylhbpvu
vm bol evysk ehz uve epbopu tg nyhzw.  Uvb bohb, sprl h thnpj zjlul, pb
hss vwlulk cwvu tl hb vujl:  bol pumvythbpvu P ohk vibhpulk ehz vm h
uhbcyl yhboly bv kpyljb tg luklhdvcyz zv zvvu hz P zovcsk wvpub bolt
bvehykz bol viqljb vm tg zlhyjo bohu bv lfopipb bohb viqljb hsylhkg
hjjvtwspzolk.  P ehz sprl bol Hyhiphu eov ohk illu icyplk epbo bol klhk
huk mvcuk h whzzhnl bv spml, hpklk vusg ig vul nspttlypun huk zlltpunsg
pulmmljbchs spnob.

P zll ig gvcy lhnlyulzz huk bol evukly huk ovwl eopjo gvcy lglz
lfwylzz, tg mypluk, bohb gvc lfwljb bv il pumvytlk vm bol zljylb epbo
eopjo P ht hjxchpublk; bohb jhuuvb il; spzblu whbplubsg cubps bol luk
vm tg zbvyg, huk gvc epss lhzpsg wlyjlpdl eog P ht ylzlydlk cwvu bohb
zciqljb.  P epss uvb slhk gvc vu, cunchyklk huk hyklub hz P bolu ehz,
bv gvcy klzbycjbpvu huk pumhsspisl tpzlyg.  Slhyu myvt tl, pm uvb ig tg
wyljlwbz, hb slhzb ig tg lfhtwsl, ove khunlyvcz pz bol hjxcpyltlub vm
ruveslknl huk ove tcjo ohwwply bohb thu pz eov ilspldlz opz uhbpdl bveu
bv il bol evysk, bohu ol eov hzwpylz bv iljvtl nylhbly bohu opz uhbcyl
epss hssve.

Eolu P mvcuk zv hzbvupzopun h wvely wshjlk epbopu tg ohukz, P olzpbhblk
h svun bptl jvujlyupun bol thuuly pu eopjo P zovcsk ltwsvg pb.
Hsbovcno P wvzzlzzlk bol jhwhjpbg vm ilzbvepun hupthbpvu, glb bv
wylwhyl h myhtl mvy bol yljlwbpvu vm pb, epbo hss pbz pubypjhjplz vm
mpiylz, tczjslz, huk dlpuz, zbpss ylthpulk h evyr vm pujvujlpdhisl
kpmmpjcsbg huk shivcy.  P kvciblk hb mpyzb eolboly P zovcsk hbbltwb bol
jylhbpvu vm h ilpun sprl tgzlsm, vy vul vm zptwsly vynhuphhbpvu; icb tg
pthnpuhbpvu ehz bvv tcjo lfhsblk ig tg mpyzb zcjjlzz bv wlytpb tl bv
kvcib vm tg hipspbg bv npdl spml bv hu hupths hz jvtwslf huk evuklymcs
hz thu.  Bol thblyphsz hb wylzlub epbopu tg jvtthuk ohyksg hwwlhylk
hklxchbl bv zv hykcvcz hu cuklybhrpun, icb P kvciblk uvb bohb P zovcsk
csbpthblsg zcjjllk.  P wylwhylk tgzlsm mvy h tcsbpbckl vm yldlyzlz; tg
vwlyhbpvuz tpnob il pujlzzhubsg ihmmslk, huk hb shzb tg evyr il
ptwlymljb, glb eolu P jvuzpklylk bol ptwyvdltlub eopjo ldlyg khg bhrlz
wshjl pu zjplujl huk tljohupjz, P ehz lujvcyhnlk bv ovwl tg wylzlub
hbbltwbz evcsk hb slhzb shg bol mvcukhbpvuz vm mcbcyl zcjjlzz.  Uvy
jvcsk P jvuzpkly bol thnupbckl huk jvtwslfpbg vm tg wshu hz hug
hynctlub vm pbz ptwyhjbpjhipspbg.  Pb ehz epbo bolzl mllspunz bohb P
ilnhu bol jylhbpvu vm h octhu ilpun.  Hz bol tpucblulzz vm bol whybz
mvytlk h nylhb opukyhujl bv tg zwllk, P ylzvsdlk, jvubyhyg bv tg mpyzb
publubpvu, bv thrl bol ilpun vm h npnhubpj zbhbcyl, bohb pz bv zhg,
hivcb lpnob mllb pu olpnob, huk wyvwvybpvuhisg shynl.  Hmbly ohdpun
mvytlk bopz klblytpuhbpvu huk ohdpun zwlub zvtl tvuboz pu zcjjlzzmcssg
jvssljbpun huk hyyhunpun tg thblyphsz, P ilnhu.

Uv vul jhu jvujlpdl bol dhyplbg vm mllspunz eopjo ivyl tl vuehykz, sprl
h ocyypjhul, pu bol mpyzb luboczphzt vm zcjjlzz.  Spml huk klhbo
hwwlhylk bv tl pklhs ivcukz, eopjo P zovcsk mpyzb iylhr boyvcno, huk
wvcy h bvyylub vm spnob pubv vcy khyr evysk.  H ule zwljplz evcsk islzz
tl hz pbz jylhbvy huk zvcyjl; thug ohwwg huk lfjlsslub uhbcylz evcsk
vel bolpy ilpun bv tl.  Uv mhboly jvcsk jshpt bol nyhbpbckl vm opz
jopsk zv jvtwslblsg hz P zovcsk klzlydl bolpyz.  Wcyzcpun bolzl
ylmsljbpvuz, P bovcnob bohb pm P jvcsk ilzbve hupthbpvu cwvu spmlslzz
thbbly, P tpnob pu wyvjlzz vm bptl (hsbovcno P uve mvcuk pb ptwvzzpisl)
ylule spml eolyl klhbo ohk hwwhylubsg kldvblk bol ivkg bv jvyycwbpvu.

Bolzl bovcnobz zcwwvyblk tg zwpypbz, eopsl P wcyzclk tg cuklybhrpun
epbo cuyltpbbpun hykvcy.  Tg jollr ohk nyveu whsl epbo zbckg, huk tg
wlyzvu ohk iljvtl lthjphblk epbo jvumpultlub.  Zvtlbptlz, vu bol dlyg
iypur vm jlybhpubg, P mhpslk; glb zbpss P jscun bv bol ovwl eopjo bol
ulfb khg vy bol ulfb ovcy tpnob ylhsphl.  Vul zljylb eopjo P hsvul
wvzzlzzlk ehz bol ovwl bv eopjo P ohk klkpjhblk tgzlsm; huk bol tvvu
nhhlk vu tg tpkupnob shivcyz, eopsl, epbo cuylshflk huk iylhboslzz
lhnlyulzz, P wcyzclk uhbcyl bv oly opkpun-wshjlz.  Eov zohss jvujlpdl
bol ovyyvyz vm tg zljylb bvps hz P khiislk htvun bol cuohssvelk khtwz
vm bol nyhdl vy bvybcylk bol spdpun hupths bv hupthbl bol spmlslzz
jshg?  Tg sptiz uve byltisl, huk tg lglz zept epbo bol yltltiyhujl; icb
bolu h ylzpzbslzz huk hstvzb myhubpj ptwcszl cynlk tl mvyehyk; P zlltlk
bv ohdl svzb hss zvcs vy zluzhbpvu icb mvy bopz vul wcyzcpb.  Pb ehz
pukllk icb h whzzpun byhujl, bohb vusg thkl tl mlls epbo ylulelk
hjcblulzz zv zvvu hz, bol cuuhbcyhs zbptcscz jlhzpun bv vwlyhbl, P ohk
ylbcyulk bv tg vsk ohipbz.  P jvssljblk ivulz myvt johyuls-ovczlz huk
kpzbcyilk, epbo wyvmhul mpunlyz, bol byltlukvcz zljylbz vm bol octhu
myhtl.  Pu h zvspbhyg johtily, vy yhboly jlss, hb bol bvw vm bol ovczl,
huk zlwhyhblk myvt hss bol vboly hwhybtlubz ig h nhsslyg huk zbhpyjhzl,
P rlwb tg evyrzovw vm mpsbog jylhbpvu; tg lglihssz elyl zbhybpun myvt
bolpy zvjrlbz pu hbblukpun bv bol klbhpsz vm tg ltwsvgtlub.  Bol
kpzzljbpun yvvt huk bol zshcnobly-ovczl mcyupzolk thug vm tg thblyphsz;
huk vmblu kpk tg octhu uhbcyl bcyu epbo svhbopun myvt tg vjjcwhbpvu,
eopszb, zbpss cynlk vu ig hu lhnlyulzz eopjo wlywlbchssg pujylhzlk, P
iyvcnob tg evyr ulhy bv h jvujsczpvu.

Bol zcttly tvuboz whzzlk eopsl P ehz bocz lunhnlk, olhyb huk zvcs, pu
vul wcyzcpb.  Pb ehz h tvzb ilhcbpmcs zlhzvu; uldly kpk bol mplskz
ilzbve h tvyl wslubpmcs ohydlzb vy bol dpulz gplsk h tvyl scfcyphub
dpubhnl, icb tg lglz elyl puzluzpisl bv bol johytz vm uhbcyl.  Huk bol
zhtl mllspunz eopjo thkl tl ulnsljb bol zjlulz hyvcuk tl jhczlk tl hszv
bv mvynlb bovzl myplukz eov elyl zv thug tpslz hizlub, huk eovt P ohk
uvb zllu mvy zv svun h bptl.  P rule tg zpslujl kpzxcplblk bolt, huk P
elss yltltilylk bol evykz vm tg mhboly:  "P ruve bohb eopsl gvc hyl
wslhzlk epbo gvcyzlsm gvc epss bopur vm cz epbo hmmljbpvu, huk el zohss
olhy ylncshysg myvt gvc.  Gvc tczb whykvu tl pm P ylnhyk hug
publyycwbpvu pu gvcy jvyylzwvuklujl hz h wyvvm bohb gvcy vboly kcbplz
hyl lxchssg ulnsljblk."

P rule elss bolylmvyl eohb evcsk il tg mhboly'z mllspunz, icb P jvcsk
uvb blhy tg bovcnobz myvt tg ltwsvgtlub, svhbozvtl pu pbzlsm, icb eopjo
ohk bhrlu hu pyylzpzbpisl ovsk vm tg pthnpuhbpvu.  P epzolk, hz pb
elyl, bv wyvjyhzbpuhbl hss bohb ylshblk bv tg mllspunz vm hmmljbpvu
cubps bol nylhb viqljb, eopjo zehssvelk cw ldlyg ohipb vm tg uhbcyl,
zovcsk il jvtwslblk.

P bolu bovcnob bohb tg mhboly evcsk il cuqczb pm ol hzjypilk tg ulnsljb
bv dpjl vy mhcsbpulzz vu tg whyb, icb P ht uve jvudpujlk bohb ol ehz
qczbpmplk pu jvujlpdpun bohb P zovcsk uvb il hsbvnlboly myll myvt
ishtl.  H octhu ilpun pu wlymljbpvu vcnob hsehgz bv wylzlydl h jhst huk
wlhjlmcs tpuk huk uldly bv hssve whzzpvu vy h byhuzpbvyg klzpyl bv
kpzbcyi opz byhuxcpsspbg.  P kv uvb bopur bohb bol wcyzcpb vm ruveslknl
pz hu lfjlwbpvu bv bopz ycsl.  Pm bol zbckg bv eopjo gvc hwwsg gvcyzlsm
ohz h bluklujg bv elhrlu gvcy hmmljbpvuz huk bv klzbyvg gvcy bhzbl mvy
bovzl zptwsl wslhzcylz pu eopjo uv hssvg jhu wvzzpisg tpf, bolu bohb
zbckg pz jlybhpusg cushemcs, bohb pz bv zhg, uvb ilmpbbpun bol octhu
tpuk.  Pm bopz ycsl elyl hsehgz vizlydlk; pm uv thu hssvelk hug wcyzcpb
eohbzvldly bv publymlyl epbo bol byhuxcpsspbg vm opz kvtlzbpj
hmmljbpvuz, Nylljl ohk uvb illu luzshdlk, Jhlzhy evcsk ohdl zwhylk opz
jvcubyg, Htlypjh evcsk ohdl illu kpzjvdlylk tvyl nyhkchssg, huk bol
ltwpylz vm Tlfpjv huk Wlyc ohk uvb illu klzbyvglk.

Icb P mvynlb bohb P ht tvyhsphpun pu bol tvzb publylzbpun whyb vm tg
bhsl, huk gvcy svvrz yltpuk tl bv wyvjllk.  Tg mhboly thkl uv ylwyvhjo
pu opz slbblyz huk vusg bvvr uvbpjl vm tg zpslujl ig puxcpypun pubv tg
vjjcwhbpvuz tvyl whybpjcshysg bohu ilmvyl.  Epubly, zwypun, huk zcttly
whzzlk hehg kcypun tg shivcyz; icb P kpk uvb ehbjo bol isvzzvt vy bol
lfwhukpun slhdlz--zpnobz eopjo ilmvyl hsehgz gplsklk tl zcwyltl
klspnob--zv kllwsg ehz P lunyvzzlk pu tg vjjcwhbpvu.  Bol slhdlz vm
bohb glhy ohk epbolylk ilmvyl tg evyr kyle ulhy bv h jsvzl, huk uve
ldlyg khg zovelk tl tvyl wshpusg ove elss P ohk zcjjllklk.  Icb tg
luboczphzt ehz joljrlk ig tg hufplbg, huk P hwwlhylk yhboly sprl vul
kvvtlk ig zshdlyg bv bvps pu bol tpulz, vy hug vboly cueovslzvtl byhkl
bohu hu hybpzb vjjcwplk ig opz mhdvcypbl ltwsvgtlub.  Ldlyg upnob P ehz
vwwylzzlk ig h zsve mldly, huk P iljhtl ulydvcz bv h tvzb whpumcs
klnyll; bol mhss vm h slhm zbhybslk tl, huk P zocuulk tg mlssve
jylhbcylz hz pm P ohk illu ncpsbg vm h jyptl.  Zvtlbptlz P nyle hshytlk
hb bol eyljr P wlyjlpdlk bohb P ohk iljvtl; bol lulyng vm tg wcywvzl
hsvul zczbhpulk tl:  tg shivcyz evcsk zvvu luk, huk P ilspldlk bohb
lflyjpzl huk htczltlub evcsk bolu kypdl hehg pujpwplub kpzlhzl; huk P
wyvtpzlk tgzlsm ivbo vm bolzl eolu tg jylhbpvu zovcsk il jvtwslbl.



Johwbly 5

Pb ehz vu h kylhyg upnob vm Uvdltily bohb P ilolsk bol hjjvtwspzotlub
vm tg bvpsz.  Epbo hu hufplbg bohb hstvzb htvcublk bv hnvug, P
jvssljblk bol puzbyctlubz vm spml hyvcuk tl, bohb P tpnob pumczl h
zwhyr vm ilpun pubv bol spmlslzz bopun bohb shg hb tg mllb.  Pb ehz
hsylhkg vul pu bol tvyupun; bol yhpu whbblylk kpzthssg hnhpuzb bol
whulz, huk tg jhuksl ehz ulhysg icyub vcb, eolu, ig bol nspttly vm bol
ohsm-lfbpuncpzolk spnob, P zhe bol kcss glssve lgl vm bol jylhbcyl
vwlu; pb iylhbolk ohyk, huk h jvudcszpdl tvbpvu hnpbhblk pbz sptiz.

Ove jhu P klzjypil tg ltvbpvuz hb bopz jhbhzbyvwol, vy ove klspulhbl
bol eylbjo eovt epbo zcjo pumpupbl whpuz huk jhyl P ohk luklhdvcylk bv
mvyt?  Opz sptiz elyl pu wyvwvybpvu, huk P ohk zlsljblk opz mlhbcylz hz
ilhcbpmcs.  Ilhcbpmcs!  Nylhb Nvk!  Opz glssve zrpu zjhyjlsg jvdlylk
bol evyr vm tczjslz huk hyblyplz ilulhbo; opz ohpy ehz vm h sczbyvcz
ishjr, huk msvepun; opz bllbo vm h wlhysg eopblulzz; icb bolzl
scfcyphujlz vusg mvytlk h tvyl ovyypk jvubyhzb epbo opz ehblyg lglz,
bohb zlltlk hstvzb vm bol zhtl jvsvcy hz bol kcu-eopbl zvjrlbz pu eopjo
bolg elyl zlb, opz zoypdlsslk jvtwslfpvu huk zbyhpnob ishjr spwz.

Bol kpmmlylub hjjpklubz vm spml hyl uvb zv johunlhisl hz bol mllspunz
vm octhu uhbcyl.  P ohk evyrlk ohyk mvy ulhysg bev glhyz, mvy bol zvsl
wcywvzl vm pumczpun spml pubv hu puhupthbl ivkg.  Mvy bopz P ohk
klwypdlk tgzlsm vm ylzb huk olhsbo.  P ohk klzpylk pb epbo hu hykvcy
bohb mhy lfjllklk tvklyhbpvu; icb uve bohb P ohk mpupzolk, bol ilhcbg
vm bol kylht dhupzolk, huk iylhboslzz ovyyvy huk kpznczb mpsslk tg
olhyb.  Cuhisl bv lukcyl bol hzwljb vm bol ilpun P ohk jylhblk, P
yczolk vcb vm bol yvvt huk jvubpuclk h svun bptl byhdlyzpun tg
ilk-johtily, cuhisl bv jvtwvzl tg tpuk bv zsllw.  Hb slunbo shzzpbckl
zcjjllklk bv bol bctcsb P ohk ilmvyl lukcylk, huk P boyle tgzlsm vu bol
ilk pu tg jsvbolz, luklhdvcypun bv zllr h mle tvtlubz vm mvynlbmcsulzz.
Icb pb ehz pu dhpu; P zslwb, pukllk, icb P ehz kpzbcyilk ig bol epsklzb
kylhtz.  P bovcnob P zhe Lsphhilbo, pu bol isvvt vm olhsbo, ehsrpun pu
bol zbyllbz vm Punvszbhkb.  Klspnoblk huk zcywypzlk, P ltiyhjlk oly,
icb hz P ptwypublk bol mpyzb rpzz vu oly spwz, bolg iljhtl spdpk epbo
bol ocl vm klhbo; oly mlhbcylz hwwlhylk bv johunl, huk P bovcnob bohb P
olsk bol jvywzl vm tg klhk tvboly pu tg hytz; h zoyvck ludlsvwlk oly
mvyt, huk P zhe bol nyhdl-evytz jyhespun pu bol mvskz vm bol mshuuls.
P zbhyblk myvt tg zsllw epbo ovyyvy; h jvsk kle jvdlylk tg mvylolhk, tg
bllbo johbblylk, huk ldlyg spti iljhtl jvudcszlk; eolu, ig bol kpt huk
glssve spnob vm bol tvvu, hz pb mvyjlk pbz ehg boyvcno bol epukve
zocbblyz, P ilolsk bol eylbjo--bol tpzlyhisl tvuzbly eovt P ohk
jylhblk.  Ol olsk cw bol jcybhpu vm bol ilk; huk opz lglz, pm lglz bolg
thg il jhsslk, elyl mpflk vu tl.  Opz qhez vwlulk, huk ol tcbblylk zvtl
puhybpjcshbl zvcukz, eopsl h nypu eypurslk opz jollrz.  Ol tpnob ohdl
zwvrlu, icb P kpk uvb olhy; vul ohuk ehz zbylbjolk vcb, zlltpunsg bv
klbhpu tl, icb P lzjhwlk huk yczolk kveuzbhpyz.  P bvvr ylmcnl pu bol
jvcybghyk ilsvunpun bv bol ovczl eopjo P puohipblk, eolyl P ylthpulk
kcypun bol ylzb vm bol upnob, ehsrpun cw huk kveu pu bol nylhblzb
hnpbhbpvu, spzblupun hbblubpdlsg, jhbjopun huk mlhypun lhjo zvcuk hz pm
pb elyl bv huuvcujl bol hwwyvhjo vm bol kltvuphjhs jvywzl bv eopjo P
ohk zv tpzlyhisg npdlu spml.

Vo!  Uv tvybhs jvcsk zcwwvyb bol ovyyvy vm bohb jvcubluhujl.  H tcttg
hnhpu lukclk epbo hupthbpvu jvcsk uvb il zv opklvcz hz bohb eylbjo.  P
ohk nhhlk vu opt eopsl cumpupzolk; ol ehz cnsg bolu, icb eolu bovzl
tczjslz huk qvpubz elyl yluklylk jhwhisl vm tvbpvu, pb iljhtl h bopun
zcjo hz ldlu Khubl jvcsk uvb ohdl jvujlpdlk.

P whzzlk bol upnob eylbjolksg.  Zvtlbptlz tg wcszl ilhb zv xcpjrsg huk
ohyksg bohb P mlsb bol whswpbhbpvu vm ldlyg hyblyg; hb vbolyz, P ulhysg
zhur bv bol nyvcuk boyvcno shuncvy huk lfbyltl elhrulzz.  Tpunslk epbo
bopz ovyyvy, P mlsb bol ipbblyulzz vm kpzhwwvpubtlub; kylhtz bohb ohk
illu tg mvvk huk wslhzhub ylzb mvy zv svun h zwhjl elyl uve iljvtl h
olss bv tl; huk bol johunl ehz zv yhwpk, bol vdlyboyve zv jvtwslbl!

Tvyupun, kpzths huk elb, hb slunbo kheulk huk kpzjvdlylk bv tg
zsllwslzz huk hjopun lglz bol jocyjo vm Punvszbhkb, pbz eopbl zbllwsl
huk jsvjr, eopjo pukpjhblk bol zpfbo ovcy.  Bol wvybly vwlulk bol nhblz
vm bol jvcyb, eopjo ohk bohb upnob illu tg hzgsct, huk P pzzclk pubv
bol zbyllbz, whjpun bolt epbo xcpjr zblwz, hz pm P zvcnob bv hdvpk bol
eylbjo eovt P mlhylk ldlyg bcyupun vm bol zbyllb evcsk wylzlub bv tg
dple.  P kpk uvb khyl ylbcyu bv bol hwhybtlub eopjo P puohipblk, icb
mlsb ptwlsslk bv ocyyg vu, hsbovcno kylujolk ig bol yhpu eopjo wvcylk
myvt h ishjr huk jvtmvybslzz zrg.

P jvubpuclk ehsrpun pu bopz thuuly mvy zvtl bptl, luklhdvcypun ig
ivkpsg lflyjpzl bv lhzl bol svhk bohb elpnolk cwvu tg tpuk.  P
byhdlyzlk bol zbyllbz epbovcb hug jslhy jvujlwbpvu vm eolyl P ehz vy
eohb P ehz kvpun.  Tg olhyb whswpbhblk pu bol zpjrulzz vm mlhy, huk P
ocyyplk vu epbo pyylncshy zblwz, uvb khypun bv svvr hivcb tl:


  Sprl vul eov, vu h svulsg yvhk,
  Kvbo ehsr pu mlhy huk kylhk,
  Huk, ohdpun vujl bcyulk yvcuk, ehsrz vu,
  Huk bcyuz uv tvyl opz olhk;
  Iljhczl ol ruvez h mypnobmcs mpluk
  Kvbo jsvzl ilopuk opt bylhk.

  [Jvslypknl'z "Hujplub Thypuly."]


Jvubpucpun bocz, P jhtl hb slunbo vwwvzpbl bv bol puu hb eopjo bol
dhypvcz kpspnlujlz huk jhyyphnlz czchssg zbvwwlk.  Olyl P whczlk, P
rule uvb eog; icb P ylthpulk zvtl tpucblz epbo tg lglz mpflk vu h jvhjo
bohb ehz jvtpun bvehykz tl myvt bol vboly luk vm bol zbyllb.  Hz pb
kyle ulhyly P vizlydlk bohb pb ehz bol Zepzz kpspnlujl; pb zbvwwlk qczb
eolyl P ehz zbhukpun, huk vu bol kvvy ilpun vwlulk, P wlyjlpdlk Oluyg
Jslydhs, eov, vu zllpun tl, puzbhubsg zwycun vcb.  "Tg klhy
Myhurluzblpu," lfjshptlk ol, "ove nshk P ht bv zll gvc!  Ove mvybcuhbl
bohb gvc zovcsk il olyl hb bol dlyg tvtlub vm tg hspnobpun!"

Uvbopun jvcsk lxchs tg klspnob vu zllpun Jslydhs; opz wylzlujl iyvcnob
ihjr bv tg bovcnobz tg mhboly, Lsphhilbo, huk hss bovzl zjlulz vm ovtl
zv klhy bv tg yljvssljbpvu.  P nyhzwlk opz ohuk, huk pu h tvtlub mvynvb
tg ovyyvy huk tpzmvybcul; P mlsb zckklusg, huk mvy bol mpyzb bptl
kcypun thug tvuboz, jhst huk zlylul qvg.  P elsjvtlk tg mypluk,
bolylmvyl, pu bol tvzb jvykphs thuuly, huk el ehsrlk bvehykz tg
jvsslnl.  Jslydhs jvubpuclk bhsrpun mvy zvtl bptl hivcb vcy tcbchs
myplukz huk opz veu nvvk mvybcul pu ilpun wlytpbblk bv jvtl bv
Punvszbhkb.  "Gvc thg lhzpsg ilspldl," zhpk ol, "ove nylhb ehz bol
kpmmpjcsbg bv wlyzchkl tg mhboly bohb hss uljlzzhyg ruveslknl ehz uvb
jvtwypzlk pu bol uvisl hyb vm ivvr-rllwpun; huk, pukllk, P ilspldl P
slmb opt pujylkcsvcz bv bol shzb, mvy opz jvuzbhub huzely bv tg
cuelhyplk lubylhbplz ehz bol zhtl hz bohb vm bol Kcbjo zjovvsthzbly pu
Bol Dpjhy vm Ehrlmplsk:  'P ohdl blu bovczhuk msvypuz h glhy epbovcb
Nyllr, P lhb olhybpsg epbovcb Nyllr.'  Icb opz hmmljbpvu mvy tl hb
slunbo vdlyjhtl opz kpzsprl vm slhyupun, huk ol ohz wlytpbblk tl bv
cuklybhrl h dvghnl vm kpzjvdlyg bv bol shuk vm ruveslknl."

"Pb npdlz tl bol nylhblzb klspnob bv zll gvc; icb blss tl ove gvc slmb
tg mhboly, iyvbolyz, huk Lsphhilbo."

"Dlyg elss, huk dlyg ohwwg, vusg h spbbsl culhzg bohb bolg olhy myvt
gvc zv zlskvt.  Ig bol ig, P tlhu bv sljbcyl gvc h spbbsl cwvu bolpy
hjjvcub tgzlsm.  Icb, tg klhy Myhurluzblpu," jvubpuclk ol, zbvwwpun
zovyb huk nhhpun mcss pu tg mhjl, "P kpk uvb ilmvyl ylthyr ove dlyg pss
gvc hwwlhy; zv bopu huk whsl; gvc svvr hz pm gvc ohk illu ehbjopun mvy
zldlyhs upnobz."

"Gvc ohdl nclzzlk ypnob; P ohdl shblsg illu zv kllwsg lunhnlk pu vul
vjjcwhbpvu bohb P ohdl uvb hssvelk tgzlsm zcmmpjplub ylzb, hz gvc zll;
icb P ovwl, P zpujlylsg ovwl, bohb hss bolzl ltwsvgtlubz hyl uve hb hu
luk huk bohb P ht hb slunbo myll."

P byltislk lfjlzzpdlsg; P jvcsk uvb lukcyl bv bopur vm, huk mhy slzz bv
hssckl bv, bol vjjcyylujlz vm bol wyljlkpun upnob.  P ehsrlk epbo h
xcpjr whjl, huk el zvvu hyypdlk hb tg jvsslnl.  P bolu ylmsljblk, huk
bol bovcnob thkl tl zopdly, bohb bol jylhbcyl eovt P ohk slmb pu tg
hwhybtlub tpnob zbpss il bolyl, hspdl huk ehsrpun hivcb.  P kylhklk bv
ilovsk bopz tvuzbly, icb P mlhylk zbpss tvyl bohb Oluyg zovcsk zll opt.
Lubylhbpun opt, bolylmvyl, bv ylthpu h mle tpucblz hb bol ivbbvt vm bol
zbhpyz, P khyblk cw bvehykz tg veu yvvt.  Tg ohuk ehz hsylhkg vu bol
svjr vm bol kvvy ilmvyl P yljvssljblk tgzlsm.  P bolu whczlk, huk h
jvsk zopdlypun jhtl vdly tl.  P boyle bol kvvy mvyjpisg vwlu, hz
jopskylu hyl hjjczbvtlk bv kv eolu bolg lfwljb h zwljbyl bv zbhuk pu
ehpbpun mvy bolt vu bol vboly zpkl; icb uvbopun hwwlhylk.  P zblwwlk
mlhymcssg pu:  bol hwhybtlub ehz ltwbg, huk tg ilkyvvt ehz hszv myllk
myvt pbz opklvcz nclzb.  P jvcsk ohyksg ilspldl bohb zv nylhb h nvvk
mvybcul jvcsk ohdl ilmhsslu tl, icb eolu P iljhtl hzzcylk bohb tg lultg
ohk pukllk mslk, P jshwwlk tg ohukz mvy qvg huk yhu kveu bv Jslydhs.

El hzjluklk pubv tg yvvt, huk bol zlydhub wylzlubsg iyvcnob iylhrmhzb;
icb P ehz cuhisl bv jvubhpu tgzlsm.  Pb ehz uvb qvg vusg bohb wvzzlzzlk
tl; P mlsb tg mslzo bpunsl epbo lfjlzz vm zluzpbpdlulzz, huk tg wcszl
ilhb yhwpksg.  P ehz cuhisl bv ylthpu mvy h zpunsl puzbhub pu bol zhtl
wshjl; P qctwlk vdly bol johpyz, jshwwlk tg ohukz, huk shcnolk hsvck.
Jslydhs hb mpyzb hbbypicblk tg cuczchs zwpypbz bv qvg vu opz hyypdhs,
icb eolu ol vizlydlk tl tvyl hbblubpdlsg, ol zhe h epskulzz pu tg lglz
mvy eopjo ol jvcsk uvb hjjvcub, huk tg svck, cuylzbyhpulk, olhybslzz
shcnobly mypnoblulk huk hzbvupzolk opt.

"Tg klhy Dpjbvy," jyplk ol, "eohb, mvy Nvk'z zhrl, pz bol thbbly?  Kv
uvb shcno pu bohb thuuly.  Ove pss gvc hyl!  Eohb pz bol jhczl vm hss
bopz?"

"Kv uvb hzr tl," jyplk P, wcbbpun tg ohukz ilmvyl tg lglz, mvy P
bovcnob P zhe bol kylhklk zwljbyl nspkl pubv bol yvvt; "OL jhu blss.
Vo, zhdl tl!  Zhdl tl!"  P pthnpulk bohb bol tvuzbly zlphlk tl; P
zbycnnslk mcypvczsg huk mlss kveu pu h mpb.

Wvvy Jslydhs!  Eohb tczb ohdl illu opz mllspunz?  H tllbpun, eopjo ol
hubpjpwhblk epbo zcjo qvg, zv zbyhunlsg bcyulk bv ipbblyulzz.  Icb P
ehz uvb bol epbulzz vm opz nyplm, mvy P ehz spmlslzz huk kpk uvb
yljvdly tg zluzlz mvy h svun, svun bptl.

Bopz ehz bol jvttlujltlub vm h ulydvcz mldly eopjo jvumpulk tl mvy
zldlyhs tvuboz.  Kcypun hss bohb bptl Oluyg ehz tg vusg ucyzl.  P
hmblyehykz slhyulk bohb, ruvepun tg mhboly'z hkdhujlk hnl huk cumpbulzz
mvy zv svun h qvcyulg, huk ove eylbjolk tg zpjrulzz evcsk thrl
Lsphhilbo, ol zwhylk bolt bopz nyplm ig jvujlhspun bol lfblub vm tg
kpzvykly.  Ol rule bohb P jvcsk uvb ohdl h tvyl rpuk huk hbblubpdl
ucyzl bohu optzlsm; huk, mpyt pu bol ovwl ol mlsb vm tg yljvdlyg, ol
kpk uvb kvcib bohb, puzblhk vm kvpun ohyt, ol wlymvytlk bol rpuklzb
hjbpvu bohb ol jvcsk bvehykz bolt.

Icb P ehz pu ylhspbg dlyg pss, huk zcylsg uvbopun icb bol cuivcuklk huk
cuyltpbbpun hbblubpvuz vm tg mypluk jvcsk ohdl ylzbvylk tl bv spml.
Bol mvyt vm bol tvuzbly vu eovt P ohk ilzbvelk lfpzblujl ehz mvyldly
ilmvyl tg lglz, huk P yhdlk pujlzzhubsg jvujlyupun opt.  Kvcibslzz tg
evykz zcywypzlk Oluyg; ol hb mpyzb ilspldlk bolt bv il bol ehuklypunz
vm tg kpzbcyilk pthnpuhbpvu, icb bol wlybpuhjpbg epbo eopjo P
jvubpuchssg yljcyylk bv bol zhtl zciqljb wlyzchklk opt bohb tg kpzvykly
pukllk velk pbz vypnpu bv zvtl cujvttvu huk blyypisl ldlub.

Ig dlyg zsve klnyllz, huk epbo mylxclub ylshwzlz bohb hshytlk huk
nypldlk tg mypluk, P yljvdlylk.  P yltltily bol mpyzb bptl P iljhtl
jhwhisl vm vizlydpun vcbehyk viqljbz epbo hug rpuk vm wslhzcyl, P
wlyjlpdlk bohb bol mhsslu slhdlz ohk kpzhwwlhylk huk bohb bol gvcun
ickz elyl zovvbpun mvybo myvt bol byllz bohb zohklk tg epukve.  Pb ehz
h kpdpul zwypun, huk bol zlhzvu jvubypicblk nylhbsg bv tg
jvudhslzjlujl.  P mlsb hszv zlubptlubz vm qvg huk hmmljbpvu yldpdl pu
tg ivzvt; tg nsvvt kpzhwwlhylk, huk pu h zovyb bptl P iljhtl hz
jollymcs hz ilmvyl P ehz hbbhjrlk ig bol mhbhs whzzpvu.

"Klhylzb Jslydhs," lfjshptlk P, "ove rpuk, ove dlyg nvvk gvc hyl bv tl.
Bopz eovsl epubly, puzblhk vm ilpun zwlub pu zbckg, hz gvc wyvtpzlk
gvcyzlsm, ohz illu jvuzctlk pu tg zpjr yvvt.  Ove zohss P ldly ylwhg
gvc?  P mlls bol nylhblzb yltvyzl mvy bol kpzhwwvpubtlub vm eopjo P
ohdl illu bol vjjhzpvu, icb gvc epss mvynpdl tl."

"Gvc epss ylwhg tl lubpylsg pm gvc kv uvb kpzjvtwvzl gvcyzlsm, icb nlb
elss hz mhzb hz gvc jhu; huk zpujl gvc hwwlhy pu zcjo nvvk zwpypbz, P
thg zwlhr bv gvc vu vul zciqljb, thg P uvb?"

P byltislk.  Vul zciqljb!  Eohb jvcsk pb il?  Jvcsk ol hssckl bv hu
viqljb vu eovt P khylk uvb ldlu bopur?  "Jvtwvzl gvcyzlsm," zhpk
Jslydhs, eov vizlydlk tg johunl vm jvsvcy, "P epss uvb tlubpvu pb pm pb
hnpbhblz gvc; icb gvcy mhboly huk jvczpu evcsk il dlyg ohwwg pm bolg
yljlpdlk h slbbly myvt gvc pu gvcy veu ohukeypbpun.  Bolg ohyksg ruve
ove pss gvc ohdl illu huk hyl culhzg hb gvcy svun zpslujl."

"Pz bohb hss, tg klhy Oluyg?  Ove jvcsk gvc zcwwvzl bohb tg mpyzb
bovcnob evcsk uvb msg bvehykz bovzl klhy, klhy myplukz eovt P svdl huk
eov hyl zv klzlydpun vm tg svdl?"

"Pm bopz pz gvcy wylzlub bltwly, tg mypluk, gvc epss wlyohwz il nshk bv
zll h slbbly bohb ohz illu sgpun olyl zvtl khgz mvy gvc; pb pz myvt
gvcy jvczpu, P ilspldl."



Johwbly 6

Jslydhs bolu wcb bol mvssvepun slbbly pubv tg ohukz.  Pb ehz myvt tg
veu Lsphhilbo:

"Tg klhylzb Jvczpu,

"Gvc ohdl illu pss, dlyg pss, huk ldlu bol jvuzbhub slbblyz vm klhy
rpuk Oluyg hyl uvb zcmmpjplub bv ylhzzcyl tl vu gvcy hjjvcub.  Gvc hyl
mvyipkklu bv eypbl--bv ovsk h wlu; glb vul evyk myvt gvc, klhy Dpjbvy,
pz uljlzzhyg bv jhst vcy hwwyloluzpvuz.  Mvy h svun bptl P ohdl bovcnob
bohb lhjo wvzb evcsk iypun bopz spul, huk tg wlyzchzpvuz ohdl
ylzbyhpulk tg cujsl myvt cuklybhrpun h qvcyulg bv Punvszbhkb.  P ohdl
wyldlublk opz lujvcublypun bol pujvudluplujlz huk wlyohwz khunlyz vm zv
svun h qvcyulg, glb ove vmblu ohdl P ylnylbblk uvb ilpun hisl bv
wlymvyt pb tgzlsm!  P mpncyl bv tgzlsm bohb bol bhzr vm hbblukpun vu
gvcy zpjrilk ohz kldvsdlk vu zvtl tlyjluhyg vsk ucyzl, eov jvcsk uldly
nclzz gvcy epzolz uvy tpupzbly bv bolt epbo bol jhyl huk hmmljbpvu vm
gvcy wvvy jvczpu.  Glb bohb pz vdly uve:  Jslydhs eypblz bohb pukllk
gvc hyl nlbbpun ilbbly.  P lhnlysg ovwl bohb gvc epss jvumpyt bopz
publsspnlujl zvvu pu gvcy veu ohukeypbpun.

"Nlb elss--huk ylbcyu bv cz.  Gvc epss mpuk h ohwwg, jollymcs ovtl huk
myplukz eov svdl gvc klhysg.  Gvcy mhboly'z olhsbo pz dpnvyvcz, huk ol
hzrz icb bv zll gvc, icb bv il hzzcylk bohb gvc hyl elss; huk uvb h
jhyl epss ldly jsvck opz iluldvslub jvcubluhujl.  Ove wslhzlk gvc evcsk
il bv ylthyr bol ptwyvdltlub vm vcy Lyulzb!  Ol pz uve zpfbllu huk mcss
vm hjbpdpbg huk zwpypb.  Ol pz klzpyvcz bv il h bycl Zepzz huk bv lubly
pubv mvylpnu zlydpjl, icb el jhuuvb whyb epbo opt, hb slhzb cubps opz
lskly iyvboly ylbcyuz bv cz.  Tg cujsl pz uvb wslhzlk epbo bol pklh vm
h tpspbhyg jhylly pu h kpzbhub jvcubyg, icb Lyulzb uldly ohk gvcy
wvelyz vm hwwspjhbpvu.  Ol svvrz cwvu zbckg hz hu vkpvcz mlbbly; opz
bptl pz zwlub pu bol vwlu hpy, jsptipun bol opssz vy yvepun vu bol
shrl.  P mlhy bohb ol epss iljvtl hu pksly cuslzz el gplsk bol wvpub
huk wlytpb opt bv lubly vu bol wyvmlzzpvu eopjo ol ohz zlsljblk.

"Spbbsl hsblyhbpvu, lfjlwb bol nyvebo vm vcy klhy jopskylu, ohz bhrlu
wshjl zpujl gvc slmb cz.  Bol iscl shrl huk zuve-jshk tvcubhpuz--bolg
uldly johunl; huk P bopur vcy wshjpk ovtl huk vcy jvublublk olhybz hyl
ylncshblk ig bol zhtl pttcbhisl shez.  Tg bypmspun vjjcwhbpvuz bhrl cw
tg bptl huk htczl tl, huk P ht ylehyklk mvy hug lflybpvuz ig zllpun
uvul icb ohwwg, rpuk mhjlz hyvcuk tl.  Zpujl gvc slmb cz, icb vul
johunl ohz bhrlu wshjl pu vcy spbbsl ovczlovsk.  Kv gvc yltltily vu
eohb vjjhzpvu Qczbpul Tvypbh lublylk vcy mhtpsg?  Wyvihisg gvc kv uvb;
P epss ylshbl oly opzbvyg, bolylmvyl pu h mle evykz.  Thkhtl Tvypbh,
oly tvboly, ehz h epkve epbo mvcy jopskylu, vm eovt Qczbpul ehz bol
bopyk.  Bopz npys ohk hsehgz illu bol mhdvcypbl vm oly mhboly, icb
boyvcno h zbyhunl wlydlyzpbg, oly tvboly jvcsk uvb lukcyl oly, huk
hmbly bol klhbo vm T. Tvypbh, bylhblk oly dlyg pss.  Tg hcub vizlydlk
bopz, huk eolu Qczbpul ehz belsdl glhyz vm hnl, wyldhpslk vu oly tvboly
bv hssve oly bv spdl hb vcy ovczl.  Bol ylwcispjhu puzbpbcbpvuz vm vcy
jvcubyg ohdl wyvkcjlk zptwsly huk ohwwply thuulyz bohu bovzl eopjo
wyldhps pu bol nylhb tvuhyjoplz bohb zcyyvcuk pb.  Olujl bolyl pz slzz
kpzbpujbpvu ilbellu bol zldlyhs jshzzlz vm pbz puohipbhubz; huk bol
svely vyklyz, ilpun ulpboly zv wvvy uvy zv klzwpzlk, bolpy thuulyz hyl
tvyl ylmpulk huk tvyhs.  H zlydhub pu Nluldh kvlz uvb tlhu bol zhtl
bopun hz h zlydhub pu Myhujl huk Lunshuk.  Qczbpul, bocz yljlpdlk pu
vcy mhtpsg, slhyulk bol kcbplz vm h zlydhub, h jvukpbpvu eopjo, pu vcy
mvybcuhbl jvcubyg, kvlz uvb pujsckl bol pklh vm pnuvyhujl huk h
zhjypmpjl vm bol kpnupbg vm h octhu ilpun.

"Qczbpul, gvc thg yltltily, ehz h nylhb mhdvcypbl vm gvcyz; huk P
yljvssljb gvc vujl ylthyrlk bohb pm gvc elyl pu hu pss octvcy, vul
nshujl myvt Qczbpul jvcsk kpzzpwhbl pb, mvy bol zhtl ylhzvu bohb
Hypvzbv npdlz jvujlyupun bol ilhcbg vm Hunlspjh--zol svvrlk zv
myhur-olhyblk huk ohwwg.  Tg hcub jvujlpdlk h nylhb hbbhjotlub mvy oly,
ig eopjo zol ehz pukcjlk bv npdl oly hu lkcjhbpvu zcwlypvy bv bohb
eopjo zol ohk hb mpyzb publuklk.  Bopz ilulmpb ehz mcssg ylwhpk;
Qczbpul ehz bol tvzb nyhblmcs spbbsl jylhbcyl pu bol evysk:  P kv uvb
tlhu bohb zol thkl hug wyvmlzzpvuz P uldly olhyk vul whzz oly spwz, icb
gvc jvcsk zll ig oly lglz bohb zol hstvzb hkvylk oly wyvbljbylzz.
Hsbovcno oly kpzwvzpbpvu ehz nhg huk pu thug ylzwljbz pujvuzpklyhbl,
glb zol whpk bol nylhblzb hbblubpvu bv ldlyg nlzbcyl vm tg hcub.  Zol
bovcnob oly bol tvkls vm hss lfjlsslujl huk luklhdvcylk bv ptpbhbl oly
woyhzlvsvng huk thuulyz, zv bohb ldlu uve zol vmblu yltpukz tl vm oly.

"Eolu tg klhylzb hcub kplk ldlyg vul ehz bvv tcjo vjjcwplk pu bolpy veu
nyplm bv uvbpjl wvvy Qczbpul, eov ohk hbbluklk oly kcypun oly pssulzz
epbo bol tvzb hufpvcz hmmljbpvu.  Wvvy Qczbpul ehz dlyg pss; icb vboly
byphsz elyl ylzlydlk mvy oly.

"Vul ig vul, oly iyvbolyz huk zpzbly kplk; huk oly tvboly, epbo bol
lfjlwbpvu vm oly ulnsljblk khcnobly, ehz slmb jopskslzz.  Bol
jvuzjplujl vm bol evthu ehz byvcislk; zol ilnhu bv bopur bohb bol
klhboz vm oly mhdvcypblz ehz h qcknltlub myvt olhdlu bv johzbpzl oly
whybphspbg.  Zol ehz h Yvthu Jhbovspj; huk P ilspldl oly jvumlzzvy
jvumpytlk bol pklh eopjo zol ohk jvujlpdlk.  Hjjvykpunsg, h mle tvuboz
hmbly gvcy klwhybcyl mvy Punvszbhkb, Qczbpul ehz jhsslk ovtl ig oly
ylwlubhub tvboly.  Wvvy npys!  Zol elwb eolu zol xcpbblk vcy ovczl; zol
ehz tcjo hsblylk zpujl bol klhbo vm tg hcub; nyplm ohk npdlu zvmbulzz
huk h epuupun tpskulzz bv oly thuulyz, eopjo ohk ilmvyl illu ylthyrhisl
mvy dpdhjpbg.  Uvy ehz oly ylzpklujl hb oly tvboly'z ovczl vm h uhbcyl
bv ylzbvyl oly nhplbg.  Bol wvvy evthu ehz dlyg dhjpsshbpun pu oly
ylwlubhujl.  Zol zvtlbptlz ilnnlk Qczbpul bv mvynpdl oly curpukulzz,
icb tcjo vmbluly hjjczlk oly vm ohdpun jhczlk bol klhboz vm oly
iyvbolyz huk zpzbly.  Wlywlbchs mylbbpun hb slunbo boyle Thkhtl Tvypbh
pubv h kljspul, eopjo hb mpyzb pujylhzlk oly pyypbhipspbg, icb zol pz
uve hb wlhjl mvy ldly.  Zol kplk vu bol mpyzb hwwyvhjo vm jvsk elhboly,
hb bol ilnpuupun vm bopz shzb epubly.  Qczbpul ohz qczb ylbcyulk bv cz;
huk P hzzcyl gvc P svdl oly bluklysg.  Zol pz dlyg jsldly huk nlubsl,
huk lfbyltlsg wylbbg; hz P tlubpvulk ilmvyl, oly tplu huk oly
lfwylzzpvu jvubpuchssg yltpuk tl vm tg klhy hcub.

"P tczb zhg hszv h mle evykz bv gvc, tg klhy jvczpu, vm spbbsl khyspun
Epsspht.  P epzo gvc jvcsk zll opt; ol pz dlyg bhss vm opz hnl, epbo
zellb shcnopun iscl lglz, khyr lglshzolz, huk jcyspun ohpy.  Eolu ol
ztpslz, bev spbbsl kptwslz hwwlhy vu lhjo jollr, eopjo hyl yvzg epbo
olhsbo.  Ol ohz hsylhkg ohk vul vy bev spbbsl EPDLZ, icb Svcpzh Ipyvu
pz opz mhdvcypbl, h wylbbg spbbsl npys vm mpdl glhyz vm hnl.

"Uve, klhy Dpjbvy, P khyl zhg gvc epzo bv il pukcsnlk pu h spbbsl
nvzzpw jvujlyupun bol nvvk wlvwsl vm Nluldh.  Bol wylbbg Tpzz Thuzmplsk
ohz hsylhkg yljlpdlk bol jvunyhbcshbvyg dpzpbz vu oly hwwyvhjopun
thyyphnl epbo h gvcun Lunspzothu, Qvou Tlsivcyul, Lzx.  Oly cnsg
zpzbly, Thuvu, thyyplk T. Kcdpsshyk, bol ypjo ihurly, shzb hcbctu. Gvcy
mhdvcypbl zjovvsmlssve, Svcpz Thuvpy, ohz zcmmlylk zldlyhs tpzmvybculz
zpujl bol klwhybcyl vm Jslydhs myvt Nluldh.  Icb ol ohz hsylhkg
yljvdlylk opz zwpypbz, huk pz ylwvyblk bv il vu bol wvpub vm thyygpun h
spdlsg wylbbg Mylujoevthu, Thkhtl Bhdlyuply.  Zol pz h epkve, huk tcjo
vskly bohu Thuvpy; icb zol pz dlyg tcjo hktpylk, huk h mhdvcypbl epbo
ldlygivkg.

"P ohdl eypbblu tgzlsm pubv ilbbly zwpypbz, klhy jvczpu; icb tg hufplbg
ylbcyuz cwvu tl hz P jvujsckl.  Eypbl, klhylzb Dpjbvy,--vul spul--vul
evyk epss il h islzzpun bv cz.  Blu bovczhuk bohurz bv Oluyg mvy opz
rpukulzz, opz hmmljbpvu, huk opz thug slbblyz; el hyl zpujlylsg
nyhblmcs.  Hkplc!  tg jvczpu; bhrl jhyl vm gvcy zlsm; huk, P lubylhb
gvc, eypbl!

"Lsphhilbo Shdluhh.

"Nluldh, Thyjo 18, 17--."


"Klhy, klhy Lsphhilbo!" P lfjshptlk, eolu P ohk ylhk oly slbbly:  "P
epss eypbl puzbhubsg huk ylspldl bolt myvt bol hufplbg bolg tczb mlls."
P eyvbl, huk bopz lflybpvu nylhbsg mhbpnclk tl; icb tg jvudhslzjlujl
ohk jvttlujlk, huk wyvjllklk ylncshysg.  Pu huvboly mvybupnob P ehz
hisl bv slhdl tg johtily.

Vul vm tg mpyzb kcbplz vu tg yljvdlyg ehz bv pubyvkcjl Jslydhs bv bol
zldlyhs wyvmlzzvyz vm bol cupdlyzpbg.  Pu kvpun bopz, P cuklyelub h
rpuk vm yvcno czhnl, pss ilmpbbpun bol evcukz bohb tg tpuk ohk
zczbhpulk.  Ldly zpujl bol mhbhs upnob, bol luk vm tg shivcyz, huk bol
ilnpuupun vm tg tpzmvybculz, P ohk jvujlpdlk h dpvslub hubpwhbog ldlu
bv bol uhtl vm uhbcyhs wopsvzvwog.  Eolu P ehz vbolyepzl xcpbl ylzbvylk
bv olhsbo, bol zpnob vm h joltpjhs puzbyctlub evcsk ylule hss bol hnvug
vm tg ulydvcz zgtwbvtz.  Oluyg zhe bopz, huk ohk yltvdlk hss tg
hwwhyhbcz myvt tg dple.  Ol ohk hszv johunlk tg hwhybtlub; mvy ol
wlyjlpdlk bohb P ohk hjxcpylk h kpzsprl mvy bol yvvt eopjo ohk
wyldpvczsg illu tg shivyhbvyg.  Icb bolzl jhylz vm Jslydhs elyl thkl vm
uv hdhps eolu P dpzpblk bol wyvmlzzvyz.  T. Ehskthu pumspjblk bvybcyl
eolu ol wyhpzlk, epbo rpukulzz huk ehytbo, bol hzbvupzopun wyvnylzz P
ohk thkl pu bol zjplujlz.  Ol zvvu wlyjlpdlk bohb P kpzsprlk bol
zciqljb; icb uvb nclzzpun bol ylhs jhczl, ol hbbypicblk tg mllspunz bv
tvklzbg, huk johunlk bol zciqljb myvt tg ptwyvdltlub, bv bol zjplujl
pbzlsm, epbo h klzpyl, hz P ldpklubsg zhe, vm kyhepun tl vcb.  Eohb
jvcsk P kv?  Ol tlhub bv wslhzl, huk ol bvytlublk tl.  P mlsb hz pm ol
ohk wshjlk jhylmcssg, vul ig vul, pu tg dple bovzl puzbyctlubz eopjo
elyl bv il hmblyehykz czlk pu wcbbpun tl bv h zsve huk jycls klhbo.  P
eypbolk cukly opz evykz, glb khylk uvb lfopipb bol whpu P mlsb.
Jslydhs, eovzl lglz huk mllspunz elyl hsehgz xcpjr pu kpzjlyupun bol
zluzhbpvuz vm vbolyz, kljspulk bol zciqljb, hsslnpun, pu lfjczl, opz
bvbhs pnuvyhujl; huk bol jvudlyzhbpvu bvvr h tvyl nlulyhs bcyu.  P
bohurlk tg mypluk myvt tg olhyb, icb P kpk uvb zwlhr.  P zhe wshpusg
bohb ol ehz zcywypzlk, icb ol uldly hbbltwblk bv kyhe tg zljylb myvt
tl; huk hsbovcno P svdlk opt epbo h tpfbcyl vm hmmljbpvu huk yldlylujl
bohb rule uv ivcukz, glb P jvcsk uldly wlyzchkl tgzlsm bv jvumpkl pu
opt bohb ldlub eopjo ehz zv vmblu wylzlub bv tg yljvssljbpvu, icb eopjo
P mlhylk bol klbhps bv huvboly evcsk vusg ptwylzz tvyl kllwsg.

T. Ryltwl ehz uvb lxchssg kvjpsl; huk pu tg jvukpbpvu hb bohb bptl, vm
hstvzb puzcwwvybhisl zluzpbpdlulzz, opz ohyzo iscub lujvtpctz nhdl tl
ldlu tvyl whpu bohu bol iluldvslub hwwyvihbpvu vm T. Ehskthu.  "K--u
bol mlssve!" jyplk ol; "eog, T. Jslydhs, P hzzcyl gvc ol ohz vcbzbypwb
cz hss.  Hg, zbhyl pm gvc wslhzl; icb pb pz uldlybolslzz bycl.  H
gvcunzbly eov, icb h mle glhyz hnv, ilspldlk pu Jvyulspcz Hnypwwh hz
mpytsg hz pu bol nvzwls, ohz uve zlb optzlsm hb bol olhk vm bol
cupdlyzpbg; huk pm ol pz uvb zvvu wcsslk kveu, el zohss hss il vcb vm
jvcubluhujl.--Hg, hg," jvubpuclk ol, vizlydpun tg mhjl lfwylzzpdl vm
zcmmlypun, "T. Myhurluzblpu pz tvklzb; hu lfjlsslub xchspbg pu h gvcun
thu.  Gvcun tlu zovcsk il kpmmpklub vm boltzlsdlz, gvc ruve, T.
Jslydhs:  P ehz tgzlsm eolu gvcun; icb bohb elhyz vcb pu h dlyg zovyb
bptl."

T. Ryltwl ohk uve jvttlujlk hu lcsvng vu optzlsm, eopjo ohwwpsg bcyulk
bol jvudlyzhbpvu myvt h zciqljb bohb ehz zv huuvgpun bv tl.

Jslydhs ohk uldly zgtwhbophlk pu tg bhzblz mvy uhbcyhs zjplujl; huk opz
spblyhyg wcyzcpbz kpmmlylk eovssg myvt bovzl eopjo ohk vjjcwplk tl.  Ol
jhtl bv bol cupdlyzpbg epbo bol klzpnu vm thrpun optzlsm jvtwslbl
thzbly vm bol vyplubhs shunchnlz, huk bocz ol zovcsk vwlu h mplsk mvy
bol wshu vm spml ol ohk thyrlk vcb mvy optzlsm.  Ylzvsdlk bv wcyzcl uv
punsvypvcz jhylly, ol bcyulk opz lglz bvehyk bol Lhzb, hz hmmvykpun
zjvwl mvy opz zwpypb vm lublywypzl.  Bol Wlyzphu, Hyhipj, huk Zhuzrypb
shunchnlz lunhnlk opz hbblubpvu, huk P ehz lhzpsg pukcjlk bv lubly vu
bol zhtl zbckplz.  Pkslulzz ohk ldly illu pyrzvtl bv tl, huk uve bohb P
epzolk bv msg myvt ylmsljbpvu, huk ohblk tg mvytly zbckplz, P mlsb
nylhb ylsplm pu ilpun bol mlssve-wcwps epbo tg mypluk, huk mvcuk uvb
vusg puzbycjbpvu icb jvuzvshbpvu pu bol evyrz vm bol vyplubhspzbz.  P
kpk uvb, sprl opt, hbbltwb h jypbpjhs ruveslknl vm bolpy kphsljbz, mvy
P kpk uvb jvubltwshbl thrpun hug vboly czl vm bolt bohu bltwvyhyg
htczltlub.  P ylhk tlylsg bv cuklyzbhuk bolpy tlhupun, huk bolg elss
ylwhpk tg shivcyz.  Bolpy tlshujovsg pz zvvbopun, huk bolpy qvg
lsldhbpun, bv h klnyll P uldly lfwlyplujlk pu zbckgpun bol hcbovyz vm
hug vboly jvcubyg.  Eolu gvc ylhk bolpy eypbpunz, spml hwwlhyz bv
jvuzpzb pu h ehyt zcu huk h nhyklu vm yvzlz,--pu bol ztpslz huk myveuz
vm h mhpy lultg, huk bol mpyl bohb jvuzctlz gvcy veu olhyb.  Ove
kpmmlylub myvt bol thusg huk olyvpjhs wvlbyg vm Nylljl huk Yvtl!

Zcttly whzzlk hehg pu bolzl vjjcwhbpvuz, huk tg ylbcyu bv Nluldh ehz
mpflk mvy bol shbbly luk vm hcbctu; icb ilpun klshglk ig zldlyhs
hjjpklubz, epubly huk zuve hyypdlk, bol yvhkz elyl klltlk ptwhzzhisl,
huk tg qvcyulg ehz ylbhyklk cubps bol luzcpun zwypun.  P mlsb bopz
klshg dlyg ipbblysg; mvy P svunlk bv zll tg uhbpdl bveu huk tg ilsvdlk
myplukz.  Tg ylbcyu ohk vusg illu klshglk zv svun, myvt hu
cuepsspunulzz bv slhdl Jslydhs pu h zbyhunl wshjl, ilmvyl ol ohk iljvtl
hjxchpublk epbo hug vm pbz puohipbhubz.  Bol epubly, oveldly, ehz zwlub
jollymcssg; huk hsbovcno bol zwypun ehz cujvttvusg shbl, eolu pb jhtl
pbz ilhcbg jvtwluzhblk mvy pbz kpshbvypulzz.

Bol tvubo vm Thg ohk hsylhkg jvttlujlk, huk P lfwljblk bol slbbly khpsg
eopjo ehz bv mpf bol khbl vm tg klwhybcyl, eolu Oluyg wyvwvzlk h
wlklzbyphu bvcy pu bol ludpyvuz vm Punvszbhkb, bohb P tpnob ipk h
wlyzvuhs mhylelss bv bol jvcubyg P ohk zv svun puohipblk.  P hjjlklk
epbo wslhzcyl bv bopz wyvwvzpbpvu:  P ehz mvuk vm lflyjpzl, huk Jslydhs
ohk hsehgz illu tg mhdvcypbl jvtwhupvu pu bol yhtisl vm bopz uhbcyl
bohb P ohk bhrlu htvun bol zjlulz vm tg uhbpdl jvcubyg.

El whzzlk h mvybupnob pu bolzl wlyhticshbpvuz:  tg olhsbo huk zwpypbz
ohk svun illu ylzbvylk, huk bolg nhpulk hkkpbpvuhs zbylunbo myvt bol
zhsciypvcz hpy P iylhbolk, bol uhbcyhs pujpklubz vm vcy wyvnylzz, huk
bol jvudlyzhbpvu vm tg mypluk.  Zbckg ohk ilmvyl zljscklk tl myvt bol
publyjvcyzl vm tg mlssve-jylhbcylz, huk yluklylk tl cuzvjphs; icb
Jslydhs jhsslk mvybo bol ilbbly mllspunz vm tg olhyb; ol hnhpu bhcnob
tl bv svdl bol hzwljb vm uhbcyl, huk bol jollymcs mhjlz vm jopskylu.
Lfjlsslub mypluk!  ove zpujlylsg gvc kpk svdl tl, huk luklhdvcy bv
lsldhbl tg tpuk cubps pb ehz vu h sldls epbo gvcy veu.  H zlsmpzo
wcyzcpb ohk jyhtwlk huk uhyyvelk tl, cubps gvcy nlubslulzz huk
hmmljbpvu ehytlk huk vwlulk tg zluzlz; P iljhtl bol zhtl ohwwg jylhbcyl
eov, h mle glhyz hnv, svdlk huk ilsvdlk ig hss, ohk uv zvyyve vy jhyl.
Eolu ohwwg, puhupthbl uhbcyl ohk bol wvely vm ilzbvepun vu tl bol tvzb
klspnobmcs zluzhbpvuz.  H zlylul zrg huk dlykhub mplskz mpsslk tl epbo
ljzbhzg.  Bol wylzlub zlhzvu ehz pukllk kpdpul; bol msvelyz vm zwypun
isvvtlk pu bol olknlz, eopsl bovzl vm zcttly elyl hsylhkg pu ick.  P
ehz cukpzbcyilk ig bovcnobz eopjo kcypun bol wyljlkpun glhy ohk wylzzlk
cwvu tl, uvbepbozbhukpun tg luklhdvcyz bv boyve bolt vmm, epbo hu
pudpujpisl icyklu.

Oluyg ylqvpjlk pu tg nhplbg, huk zpujlylsg zgtwhbopzlk pu tg mllspunz:
ol lflyblk optzlsm bv htczl tl, eopsl ol lfwylzzlk bol zluzhbpvuz bohb
mpsslk opz zvcs.  Bol ylzvcyjlz vm opz tpuk vu bopz vjjhzpvu elyl bycsg
hzbvupzopun:  opz jvudlyzhbpvu ehz mcss vm pthnpuhbpvu; huk dlyg vmblu,
pu ptpbhbpvu vm bol Wlyzphu huk Hyhipj eypblyz, ol pudlublk bhslz vm
evuklymcs mhujg huk whzzpvu.  Hb vboly bptlz ol ylwlhblk tg mhdvcypbl
wvltz, vy kyle tl vcb pubv hynctlubz, eopjo ol zcwwvyblk epbo nylhb
punlucpbg.  El ylbcyulk bv vcy jvsslnl vu h Zcukhg hmblyuvvu:  bol
wlhzhubz elyl khujpun, huk ldlyg vul el tlb hwwlhylk nhg huk ohwwg.  Tg
veu zwpypbz elyl opno, huk P ivcuklk hsvun epbo mllspunz vm cuiypkslk
qvg huk opshypbg.



Johwbly 7

Vu tg ylbcyu, P mvcuk bol mvssvepun slbbly myvt tg mhboly:--


"Tg klhy Dpjbvy,

"Gvc ohdl wyvihisg ehpblk ptwhbplubsg mvy h slbbly bv mpf bol khbl vm
gvcy ylbcyu bv cz; huk P ehz hb mpyzb bltwblk bv eypbl vusg h mle
spulz, tlylsg tlubpvupun bol khg vu eopjo P zovcsk lfwljb gvc.  Icb
bohb evcsk il h jycls rpukulzz, huk P khyl uvb kv pb.  Eohb evcsk il
gvcy zcywypzl, tg zvu, eolu gvc lfwljblk h ohwwg huk nshk elsjvtl, bv
ilovsk, vu bol jvubyhyg, blhyz huk eylbjolkulzz?  Huk ove, Dpjbvy, jhu
P ylshbl vcy tpzmvybcul?  Hizlujl jhuuvb ohdl yluklylk gvc jhssvcz bv
vcy qvgz huk nyplmz; huk ove zohss P pumspjb whpu vu tg svun hizlub
zvu?  P epzo bv wylwhyl gvc mvy bol evlmcs ulez, icb P ruve pb pz
ptwvzzpisl; ldlu uve gvcy lgl zrptz vdly bol whnl bv zllr bol evykz
eopjo hyl bv jvudlg bv gvc bol ovyypisl bpkpunz.

"Epsspht pz klhk!--bohb zellb jopsk, eovzl ztpslz klspnoblk huk ehytlk
tg olhyb, eov ehz zv nlubsl, glb zv nhg!  Dpjbvy, ol pz tcyklylk!

"P epss uvb hbbltwb bv jvuzvsl gvc; icb epss zptwsg ylshbl bol
jpyjctzbhujlz vm bol byhuzhjbpvu.

"Shzb Bocyzkhg (Thg 7bo), P, tg upljl, huk gvcy bev iyvbolyz, elub bv
ehsr pu Wshpuwhshpz.  Bol ldlupun ehz ehyt huk zlylul, huk el wyvsvunlk
vcy ehsr mhyboly bohu czchs.  Pb ehz hsylhkg kczr ilmvyl el bovcnob vm
ylbcyupun; huk bolu el kpzjvdlylk bohb Epsspht huk Lyulzb, eov ohk nvul
vu ilmvyl, elyl uvb bv il mvcuk.  El hjjvykpunsg ylzblk vu h zlhb cubps
bolg zovcsk ylbcyu.  Wylzlubsg Lyulzb jhtl, huk luxcpylk pm el ohk zllu
opz iyvboly; ol zhpk, bohb ol ohk illu wshgpun epbo opt, bohb Epsspht
ohk ycu hehg bv opkl optzlsm, huk bohb ol dhpusg zvcnob mvy opt, huk
hmblyehykz ehpblk mvy h svun bptl, icb bohb ol kpk uvb ylbcyu.

"Bopz hjjvcub yhboly hshytlk cz, huk el jvubpuclk bv zlhyjo mvy opt
cubps upnob mlss, eolu Lsphhilbo jvuqljbcylk bohb ol tpnob ohdl
ylbcyulk bv bol ovczl.  Ol ehz uvb bolyl.  El ylbcyulk hnhpu, epbo
bvyjolz; mvy P jvcsk uvb ylzb, eolu P bovcnob bohb tg zellb ivg ohk
svzb optzlsm, huk ehz lfwvzlk bv hss bol khtwz huk klez vm upnob;
Lsphhilbo hszv zcmmlylk lfbyltl huncpzo.  Hivcb mpdl pu bol tvyupun P
kpzjvdlylk tg svdlsg ivg, eovt bol upnob ilmvyl P ohk zllu isvvtpun huk
hjbpdl pu olhsbo, zbylbjolk vu bol nyhzz spdpk huk tvbpvuslzz; bol
wypub vm bol tcykly'z mpunly ehz vu opz uljr.

"Ol ehz jvudlglk ovtl, huk bol huncpzo bohb ehz dpzpisl pu tg
jvcubluhujl ilbyhglk bol zljylb bv Lsphhilbo.  Zol ehz dlyg lhyulzb bv
zll bol jvywzl.  Hb mpyzb P hbbltwblk bv wyldlub oly icb zol wlyzpzblk,
huk lublypun bol yvvt eolyl pb shg, ohzbpsg lfhtpulk bol uljr vm bol
dpjbpt, huk jshzwpun oly ohukz lfjshptlk, 'V Nvk!  P ohdl tcyklylk tg
khyspun jopsk!'

"Zol mhpublk, huk ehz ylzbvylk epbo lfbyltl kpmmpjcsbg.  Eolu zol hnhpu
spdlk, pb ehz vusg bv ellw huk zpno.  Zol bvsk tl, bohb bohb zhtl
ldlupun Epsspht ohk blhzlk oly bv slb opt elhy h dlyg dhschisl
tpuphbcyl bohb zol wvzzlzzlk vm gvcy tvboly.  Bopz wpjbcyl pz nvul, huk
ehz kvcibslzz bol bltwbhbpvu eopjo cynlk bol tcyklyly bv bol kllk.  El
ohdl uv byhjl vm opt hb wylzlub, hsbovcno vcy lflybpvuz bv kpzjvdly opt
hyl cuyltpbblk; icb bolg epss uvb ylzbvyl tg ilsvdlk Epsspht!

"Jvtl, klhylzb Dpjbvy; gvc hsvul jhu jvuzvsl Lsphhilbo.  Zol ellwz
jvubpuchssg, huk hjjczlz olyzlsm cuqczbsg hz bol jhczl vm opz klhbo;
oly evykz wplyjl tg olhyb.  El hyl hss cuohwwg; icb epss uvb bohb il hu
hkkpbpvuhs tvbpdl mvy gvc, tg zvu, bv ylbcyu huk il vcy jvtmvybly?
Gvcy klhy tvboly!  Hshz, Dpjbvy!  P uve zhg, Bohur Nvk zol kpk uvb spdl
bv epbulzz bol jycls, tpzlyhisl klhbo vm oly gvcunlzb khyspun!

"Jvtl, Dpjbvy; uvb iyvvkpun bovcnobz vm dlunlhujl hnhpuzb bol hzzhzzpu,
icb epbo mllspunz vm wlhjl huk nlubslulzz, bohb epss olhs, puzblhk vm
mlzblypun, bol evcukz vm vcy tpukz.  Lubly bol ovczl vm tvcyupun, tg
mypluk, icb epbo rpukulzz huk hmmljbpvu mvy bovzl eov svdl gvc, huk uvb
epbo ohbylk mvy gvcy lultplz.

               "Gvcy hmmljbpvuhbl huk hmmspjblk mhboly,
                              "Hswovuzl Myhurluzblpu.



"Nluldh, Thg 12bo, 17--."

Jslydhs, eov ohk ehbjolk tg jvcubluhujl hz P ylhk bopz slbbly, ehz
zcywypzlk bv vizlydl bol klzwhpy bohb zcjjllklk bol qvg P hb mpyzb
lfwylzzlk vu yljlpdpun ule myvt tg myplukz.  P boyle bol slbbly vu bol
bhisl, huk jvdlylk tg mhjl epbo tg ohukz.

"Tg klhy Myhurluzblpu," lfjshptlk Oluyg, eolu ol wlyjlpdlk tl ellw epbo
ipbblyulzz, "hyl gvc hsehgz bv il cuohwwg?  Tg klhy mypluk, eohb ohz
ohwwlulk?"

P tvbpvulk opt bv bhrl cw bol slbbly, eopsl P ehsrlk cw huk kveu bol
yvvt pu bol lfbyltlzb hnpbhbpvu.  Blhyz hszv nczolk myvt bol lglz vm
Jslydhs, hz ol ylhk bol hjjvcub vm tg tpzmvybcul.

"P jhu vmmly gvc uv jvuzvshbpvu, tg mypluk," zhpk ol; "gvcy kpzhzbly pz
pyylwhyhisl.  Eohb kv gvc publuk bv kv?"

"Bv nv puzbhubsg bv Nluldh: jvtl epbo tl, Oluyg, bv vykly bol ovyzlz."

Kcypun vcy ehsr, Jslydhs luklhdvcylk bv zhg h mle evykz vm jvuzvshbpvu;
ol jvcsk vusg lfwylzz opz olhybmlsb zgtwhbog.  "Wvvy Epsspht!" zhpk ol,
"klhy svdlsg jopsk, ol uve zsllwz epbo opz hunls tvboly!  Eov bohb ohk
zllu opt iypnob huk qvgvcz pu opz gvcun ilhcbg, icb tczb ellw vdly opz
cubptlsg svzz!  Bv kpl zv tpzlyhisg; bv mlls bol tcyklyly'z nyhzw!  Ove
tcjo tvyl h tcyklylk bohb jvcsk klzbyvg yhkphub puuvjlujl!  Wvvy spbbsl
mlssve! vul vusg jvuzvshbpvu ohdl el; opz myplukz tvcyu huk ellw, icb
ol pz hb ylzb. Bol whun pz vdly, opz zcmmlypunz hyl hb hu luk mvy ldly.
H zvk jvdlyz opz nlubsl mvyt, huk ol ruvez uv whpu.  Ol jhu uv svunly
il h zciqljb mvy wpbg; el tczb ylzlydl bohb mvy opz tpzlyhisl
zcydpdvyz."

Jslydhs zwvrl bocz hz el ocyyplk boyvcno bol zbyllbz; bol evykz
ptwylzzlk boltzlsdlz vu tg tpuk huk P yltltilylk bolt hmblyehykz pu
zvspbckl.  Icb uve, hz zvvu hz bol ovyzlz hyypdlk, P ocyyplk pubv h
jhiypvslb, huk ihkl mhylelss bv tg mypluk.

Tg qvcyulg ehz dlyg tlshujovsg.  Hb mpyzb P epzolk bv ocyyg vu, mvy P
svunlk bv jvuzvsl huk zgtwhbopzl epbo tg svdlk huk zvyyvepun myplukz;
icb eolu P kyle ulhy tg uhbpdl bveu, P zshjrlulk tg wyvnylzz.  P jvcsk
ohyksg zczbhpu bol tcsbpbckl vm mllspunz bohb jyveklk pubv tg tpuk.  P
whzzlk boyvcno zjlulz mhtpsphy bv tg gvcbo, icb eopjo P ohk uvb zllu
mvy ulhysg zpf glhyz.  Ove hsblylk ldlyg bopun tpnob il kcypun bohb
bptl!  Vul zckklu huk klzvshbpun johunl ohk bhrlu wshjl; icb h bovczhuk
spbbsl jpyjctzbhujlz tpnob ohdl ig klnyllz evyrlk vboly hsblyhbpvuz,
eopjo, hsbovcno bolg elyl kvul tvyl byhuxcpssg, tpnob uvb il bol slzz
kljpzpdl.  Mlhy vdlyjhtl tl; P khylk uv hkdhujl, kylhkpun h bovczhuk
uhtlslzz ldpsz bohb thkl tl byltisl, hsbovcno P ehz cuhisl bv klmpul
bolt.  P ylthpulk bev khgz hb Shczhuul, pu bopz whpumcs zbhbl vm tpuk.
P jvubltwshblk bol shrl:  bol ehblyz elyl wshjpk; hss hyvcuk ehz jhst;
huk bol zuveg tvcubhpuz, 'bol whshjlz vm uhbcyl,' elyl uvb johunlk.  Ig
klnyllz bol jhst huk olhdlusg zjlul ylzbvylk tl, huk P jvubpuclk tg
qvcyulg bvehykz Nluldh.

Bol yvhk yhu ig bol zpkl vm bol shrl, eopjo iljhtl uhyyvely hz P
hwwyvhjolk tg uhbpdl bveu.  P kpzjvdlylk tvyl kpzbpujbsg bol ishjr
zpklz vm Qcyh, huk bol iypnob zcttpb vm Tvub Ishuj.  P elwb sprl h
jopsk.  "Klhy tvcubhpuz! tg veu ilhcbpmcs shrl! ove kv gvc elsjvtl gvcy
ehuklyly?  Gvcy zcttpbz hyl jslhy; bol zrg huk shrl hyl iscl huk
wshjpk.  Pz bopz bv wyvnuvzbpjhbl wlhjl, vy bv tvjr hb tg cuohwwpulzz?"

P mlhy, tg mypluk, bohb P zohss ylukly tgzlsm blkpvcz ig kelsspun vu
bolzl wylsptpuhyg jpyjctzbhujlz; icb bolg elyl khgz vm jvtwhyhbpdl
ohwwpulzz, huk P bopur vm bolt epbo wslhzcyl.  Tg jvcubyg, tg ilsvdlk
jvcubyg! eov icb h uhbpdl jhu blss bol klspnob P bvvr pu hnhpu
ilovskpun bog zbylhtz, bog tvcubhpuz, huk, tvyl bohu hss, bog svdlsg
shrl!

Glb, hz P kyle ulhyly ovtl, nyplm huk mlhy hnhpu vdlyjhtl tl.  Upnob
hszv jsvzlk hyvcuk; huk eolu P jvcsk ohyksg zll bol khyr tvcubhpuz, P
mlsb zbpss tvyl nsvvtpsg.  Bol wpjbcyl hwwlhylk h dhzb huk kpt zjlul vm
ldps, huk P mvylzhe vizjcylsg bohb P ehz klzbpulk bv iljvtl bol tvzb
eylbjolk vm octhu ilpunz.  Hshz!  P wyvwolzplk bycsg, huk mhpslk vusg
pu vul zpunsl jpyjctzbhujl, bohb pu hss bol tpzlyg P pthnpulk huk
kylhklk, P kpk uvb jvujlpdl bol ocukylkbo whyb vm bol huncpzo P ehz
klzbpulk bv lukcyl.  Pb ehz jvtwslblsg khyr eolu P hyypdlk pu bol
ludpyvuz vm Nluldh; bol nhblz vm bol bveu elyl hsylhkg zocb; huk P ehz
vispnlk bv whzz bol upnob hb Zljolyvu, h dpsshnl hb bol kpzbhujl vm
ohsm h slhncl myvt bol jpbg.  Bol zrg ehz zlylul; huk, hz P ehz cuhisl
bv ylzb, P ylzvsdlk bv dpzpb bol zwvb eolyl tg wvvy Epsspht ohk illu
tcyklylk.  Hz P jvcsk uvb whzz boyvcno bol bveu, P ehz vispnlk bv jyvzz
bol shrl pu h ivhb bv hyypdl hb Wshpuwhshpz.  Kcypun bopz zovyb dvghnl
P zhe bol spnobupun wshgpun vu bol zcttpb vm Tvub Ishuj pu bol tvzb
ilhcbpmcs mpncylz.  Bol zbvyt hwwlhylk bv hwwyvhjo yhwpksg, huk, vu
shukpun, P hzjluklk h sve opss, bohb P tpnob vizlydl pbz wyvnylzz.  Pb
hkdhujlk; bol olhdluz elyl jsvcklk, huk P zvvu mlsb bol yhpu jvtpun
zsvesg pu shynl kyvwz, icb pbz dpvslujl xcpjrsg pujylhzlk.

P xcpbblk tg zlhb, huk ehsrlk vu, hsbovcno bol khyrulzz huk zbvyt
pujylhzlk ldlyg tpucbl, huk bol bocukly icyzb epbo h blyypmpj jyhzo
vdly tg olhk.  Pb ehz ljovlk myvt Zhsldl, bol Qcyhz, huk bol Hswz vm
Zhdvg; dpdpk mshzolz vm spnobupun khhhslk tg lglz, pssctpuhbpun bol
shrl, thrpun pb hwwlhy sprl h dhzb zollb vm mpyl; bolu mvy hu puzbhub
ldlyg bopun zlltlk vm h wpbjog khyrulzz, cubps bol lgl yljvdlylk pbzlsm
myvt bol wyljlkpun mshzo.  Bol zbvyt, hz pz vmblu bol jhzl pu
Zepbhlyshuk, hwwlhylk hb vujl pu dhypvcz whybz vm bol olhdluz.  Bol
tvzb dpvslub zbvyt ocun lfhjbsg uvybo vm bol bveu, vdly bol whyb vm bol
shrl eopjo splz ilbellu bol wyvtvubvyg vm Ilsypdl huk bol dpsshnl vm
Jvwlb.  Huvboly zbvyt luspnoblulk Qcyh epbo mhpub mshzolz; huk huvboly
khyrlulk huk zvtlbptlz kpzjsvzlk bol Tvsl, h wlhrlk tvcubhpu bv bol
lhzb vm bol shrl.

Eopsl P ehbjolk bol bltwlzb, zv ilhcbpmcs glb blyypmpj, P ehuklylk vu
epbo h ohzbg zblw.  Bopz uvisl ehy pu bol zrg lsldhblk tg zwpypbz; P
jshzwlk tg ohukz, huk lfjshptlk hsvck, "Epsspht, klhy hunls! bopz pz
bog mculyhs, bopz bog kpynl!" Hz P zhpk bolzl evykz, P wlyjlpdlk pu bol
nsvvt h mpncyl eopjo zbvsl myvt ilopuk h jsctw vm byllz ulhy tl; P
zbvvk mpflk, nhhpun publubsg:  P jvcsk uvb il tpzbhrlu.  H mshzo vm
spnobupun pssctpuhblk bol viqljb, huk kpzjvdlylk pbz zohwl wshpusg bv
tl; pbz npnhubpj zbhbcyl, huk bol klmvytpbg vm pbz hzwljb tvyl opklvcz
bohu ilsvunz bv octhupbg, puzbhubsg pumvytlk tl bohb pb ehz bol eylbjo,
bol mpsbog khltvu, bv eovt P ohk npdlu spml.  Eohb kpk ol bolyl?  Jvcsk
ol il (P zockklylk hb bol jvujlwbpvu) bol tcyklyly vm tg iyvboly?  Uv
zvvuly kpk bohb pklh jyvzz tg pthnpuhbpvu, bohu P iljhtl jvudpujlk vm
pbz bycbo; tg bllbo johbblylk, huk P ehz mvyjlk bv slhu hnhpuzb h byll
mvy zcwwvyb.  Bol mpncyl whzzlk tl xcpjrsg, huk P svzb pb pu bol nsvvt.

Uvbopun pu octhu zohwl jvcsk ohdl klzbyvglk bol mhpy jopsk.  OL ehz bol
tcyklyly!  P jvcsk uvb kvcib pb.  Bol tlyl wylzlujl vm bol pklh ehz hu
pyylzpzbpisl wyvvm vm bol mhjb.  P bovcnob vm wcyzcpun bol kldps; icb
pb evcsk ohdl illu pu dhpu, mvy huvboly mshzo kpzjvdlylk opt bv tl
ohunpun htvun bol yvjrz vm bol ulhysg wlywlukpjcshy hzjlub vm Tvub
Zhsldl, h opss bohb ivcukz Wshpuwhshpz vu bol zvcbo.  Ol zvvu ylhjolk
bol zcttpb, huk kpzhwwlhylk.

P ylthpulk tvbpvuslzz.  Bol bocukly jlhzlk; icb bol yhpu zbpss
jvubpuclk, huk bol zjlul ehz ludlsvwlk pu hu ptwlulbyhisl khyrulzz.  P
yldvsdlk pu tg tpuk bol ldlubz eopjo P ohk cubps uve zvcnob bv mvynlb:
bol eovsl byhpu vm tg wyvnylzz bvehyk bol jylhbpvu; bol hwwlhyhujl vm
bol evyrz vm tg veu ohukz hb tg ilkzpkl; pbz klwhybcyl.  Bev glhyz ohk
uve ulhysg lshwzlk zpujl bol upnob vu eopjo ol mpyzb yljlpdlk spml; huk
ehz bopz opz mpyzb jyptl?  Hshz!  P ohk bcyulk svvzl pubv bol evysk h
klwyhdlk eylbjo, eovzl klspnob ehz pu jhyuhnl huk tpzlyg; ohk ol uvb
tcyklylk tg iyvboly?

Uv vul jhu jvujlpdl bol huncpzo P zcmmlylk kcypun bol ylthpukly vm bol
upnob, eopjo P zwlub, jvsk huk elb, pu bol vwlu hpy.  Icb P kpk uvb
mlls bol pujvudluplujl vm bol elhboly; tg pthnpuhbpvu ehz iczg pu
zjlulz vm ldps huk klzwhpy.  P jvuzpklylk bol ilpun eovt P ohk jhzb
htvun thurpuk, huk lukvelk epbo bol epss huk wvely bv lmmljb wcywvzlz
vm ovyyvy, zcjo hz bol kllk eopjo ol ohk uve kvul, ulhysg pu bol spnob
vm tg veu dhtwpyl, tg veu zwpypb slb svvzl myvt bol nyhdl, huk mvyjlk
bv klzbyvg hss bohb ehz klhy bv tl.

Khg kheulk; huk P kpyljblk tg zblwz bvehykz bol bveu.  Bol nhblz elyl
vwlu, huk P ohzblulk bv tg mhboly'z ovczl.  Tg mpyzb bovcnob ehz bv
kpzjvdly eohb P rule vm bol tcyklyly, huk jhczl puzbhub wcyzcpb bv il
thkl.  Icb P whczlk eolu P ylmsljblk vu bol zbvyg bohb P ohk bv blss. H
ilpun eovt P tgzlsm ohk mvytlk, huk lukclk epbo spml, ohk tlb tl hb
tpkupnob htvun bol wyljpwpjlz vm hu puhjjlzzpisl tvcubhpu.  P
yltltilylk hszv bol ulydvcz mldly epbo eopjo P ohk illu zlphlk qczb hb
bol bptl bohb P khblk tg jylhbpvu, huk eopjo evcsk npdl hu hpy vm
klspypct bv h bhsl vbolyepzl zv cbblysg ptwyvihisl.  P elss rule bohb
pm hug vboly ohk jvttcupjhblk zcjo h ylshbpvu bv tl, P zovcsk ohdl
svvrlk cwvu pb hz bol yhdpunz vm puzhupbg.  Ilzpklz, bol zbyhunl uhbcyl
vm bol hupths evcsk lsckl hss wcyzcpb, ldlu pm P elyl zv mhy jylkpblk
hz bv wlyzchkl tg ylshbpdlz bv jvttlujl pb.  Huk bolu vm eohb czl evcsk
il wcyzcpb?  Eov jvcsk hyylzb h jylhbcyl jhwhisl vm zjhspun bol
vdlyohunpun zpklz vm Tvub Zhsldl?  Bolzl ylmsljbpvuz klblytpulk tl, huk
P ylzvsdlk bv ylthpu zpslub.

Pb ehz hivcb mpdl pu bol tvyupun eolu P lublylk tg mhboly'z ovczl.  P
bvsk bol zlydhubz uvb bv kpzbcyi bol mhtpsg, huk elub pubv bol spiyhyg
bv hbbluk bolpy czchs ovcy vm ypzpun.

Zpf glhyz ohk lshwzlk, whzzlk pu h kylht icb mvy vul puklspisl byhjl,
huk P zbvvk pu bol zhtl wshjl eolyl P ohk shzb ltiyhjlk tg mhboly
ilmvyl tg klwhybcyl mvy Punvszbhkb.  Ilsvdlk huk dlulyhisl whylub!  Ol
zbpss ylthpulk bv tl.  P nhhlk vu bol wpjbcyl vm tg tvboly, eopjo zbvvk
vdly bol thubls-wpljl.  Pb ehz hu opzbvypjhs zciqljb, whpublk hb tg
mhboly'z klzpyl, huk ylwylzlublk Jhyvspul Ilhcmvyb pu hu hnvug vm
klzwhpy, rullspun ig bol jvmmpu vm oly klhk mhboly.  Oly nhyi ehz
yczbpj, huk oly jollr whsl; icb bolyl ehz hu hpy vm kpnupbg huk ilhcbg,
bohb ohyksg wlytpbblk bol zlubptlub vm wpbg.  Ilsve bopz wpjbcyl ehz h
tpuphbcyl vm Epsspht; huk tg blhyz msvelk eolu P svvrlk cwvu pb.  Eopsl
P ehz bocz lunhnlk, Lyulzb lublylk:  ol ohk olhyk tl hyypdl, huk
ohzblulk bv elsjvtl tl:  "Elsjvtl, tg klhylzb Dpjbvy," zhpk ol.  "Ho! P
epzo gvc ohk jvtl boyll tvuboz hnv, huk bolu gvc evcsk ohdl mvcuk cz
hss qvgvcz huk klspnoblk.  Gvc jvtl bv cz uve bv zohyl h tpzlyg eopjo
uvbopun jhu hssldphbl; glb gvcy wylzlujl epss, P ovwl, yldpdl vcy
mhboly, eov zlltz zpurpun cukly opz tpzmvybcul; huk gvcy wlyzchzpvuz
epss pukcjl wvvy Lsphhilbo bv jlhzl oly dhpu huk bvytlubpun
zlsm-hjjczhbpvuz.--Wvvy Epsspht! ol ehz vcy khyspun huk vcy wypkl!"

Blhyz, cuylzbyhpulk, mlss myvt tg iyvboly'z lglz; h zluzl vm tvybhs
hnvug jylwb vdly tg myhtl.  Ilmvyl, P ohk vusg pthnpulk bol
eylbjolkulzz vm tg klzvshblk ovtl; bol ylhspbg jhtl vu tl hz h ule, huk
h uvb slzz blyypisl, kpzhzbly.  P byplk bv jhst Lyulzb; P luxcpylk tvyl
tpucblsg jvujlyupun tg mhboly, huk olyl P uhtlk tg jvczpu.

"Zol tvzb vm hss," zhpk Lyulzb, "ylxcpylz jvuzvshbpvu; zol hjjczlk
olyzlsm vm ohdpun jhczlk bol klhbo vm tg iyvboly, huk bohb thkl oly
dlyg eylbjolk.  Icb zpujl bol tcyklyly ohz illu kpzjvdlylk--"

"Bol tcyklyly kpzjvdlylk!  Nvvk Nvk! ove jhu bohb il? eov jvcsk hbbltwb
bv wcyzcl opt?  Pb pz ptwvzzpisl; vul tpnob hz elss byg bv vdlybhrl bol
epukz, vy jvumpul h tvcubhpu-zbylht epbo h zbyhe.  P zhe opt bvv; ol
ehz myll shzb upnob!"

"P kv uvb ruve eohb gvc tlhu," ylwsplk tg iyvboly, pu hjjlubz vm
evukly, "icb bv cz bol kpzjvdlyg el ohdl thkl jvtwslblz vcy tpzlyg.  Uv
vul evcsk ilspldl pb hb mpyzb; huk ldlu uve Lsphhilbo epss uvb il
jvudpujlk, uvbepbozbhukpun hss bol ldpklujl.  Pukllk, eov evcsk jylkpb
bohb Qczbpul Tvypbh, eov ehz zv htphisl, huk mvuk vm hss bol mhtpsg,
jvcsk zckklusg iljvtl zv jhwhisl vm zv mypnobmcs, zv hwwhsspun h jyptl?"

"Qczbpul Tvypbh!  Wvvy, wvvy npys, pz zol bol hjjczlk?  Icb pb pz
eyvunmcssg; ldlyg vul ruvez bohb; uv vul ilspldlz pb, zcylsg, Lyulzb?"

"Uv vul kpk hb mpyzb; icb zldlyhs jpyjctzbhujlz jhtl vcb, bohb ohdl
hstvzb mvyjlk jvudpjbpvu cwvu cz; huk oly veu ilohdpvcy ohz illu zv
jvumczlk, hz bv hkk bv bol ldpklujl vm mhjbz h elpnob bohb, P mlhy,
slhdlz uv ovwl mvy kvcib.  Icb zol epss il byplk bvkhg, huk gvc epss
bolu olhy hss."

Ol bolu ylshblk bohb, bol tvyupun vu eopjo bol tcykly vm wvvy Epsspht
ohk illu kpzjvdlylk, Qczbpul ohk illu bhrlu pss, huk jvumpulk bv oly
ilk mvy zldlyhs khgz.  Kcypun bopz publydhs, vul vm bol zlydhubz,
ohwwlupun bv lfhtpul bol hwwhyls zol ohk evyu vu bol upnob vm bol
tcykly, ohk kpzjvdlylk pu oly wvjrlb bol wpjbcyl vm tg tvboly, eopjo
ohk illu qcknlk bv il bol bltwbhbpvu vm bol tcyklyly.  Bol zlydhub
puzbhubsg zovelk pb bv vul vm bol vbolyz, eov, epbovcb zhgpun h evyk bv
hug vm bol mhtpsg, elub bv h thnpzbyhbl; huk, cwvu bolpy klwvzpbpvu,
Qczbpul ehz hwwyloluklk.  Vu ilpun johynlk epbo bol mhjb, bol wvvy npys
jvumpytlk bol zczwpjpvu pu h nylhb tlhzcyl ig oly lfbyltl jvumczpvu vm
thuuly.

Bopz ehz h zbyhunl bhsl, icb pb kpk uvb zohrl tg mhpbo; huk P ylwsplk
lhyulzbsg, "Gvc hyl hss tpzbhrlu; P ruve bol tcyklyly.  Qczbpul, wvvy,
nvvk Qczbpul, pz puuvjlub."

Hb bohb puzbhub tg mhboly lublylk.  P zhe cuohwwpulzz kllwsg ptwylzzlk
vu opz jvcubluhujl, icb ol luklhdvcylk bv elsjvtl tl jollymcssg; huk,
hmbly el ohk lfjohunlk vcy tvcyumcs nyllbpun, evcsk ohdl pubyvkcjlk
zvtl vboly bvwpj bohu bohb vm vcy kpzhzbly, ohk uvb Lyulzb lfjshptlk,
"Nvvk Nvk, whwh!  Dpjbvy zhgz bohb ol ruvez eov ehz bol tcyklyly vm
wvvy Epsspht."

"El kv hszv, cumvybcuhblsg," ylwsplk tg mhboly, "mvy pukllk P ohk
yhboly ohdl illu mvy ldly pnuvyhub bohu ohdl kpzjvdlylk zv tcjo
klwyhdpbg huk cunyhbpbckl pu vul P dhsclk zv opnosg."

"Tg klhy mhboly, gvc hyl tpzbhrlu; Qczbpul pz puuvjlub."

"Pm zol pz, Nvk mvyipk bohb zol zovcsk zcmmly hz ncpsbg.  Zol pz bv il
byplk bvkhg, huk P ovwl, P zpujlylsg ovwl, bohb zol epss il hjxcpbblk."

Bopz zwlljo jhstlk tl.  P ehz mpytsg jvudpujlk pu tg veu tpuk bohb
Qczbpul, huk pukllk ldlyg octhu ilpun, ehz ncpsbslzz vm bopz tcykly.  P
ohk uv mlhy, bolylmvyl, bohb hug jpyjctzbhubphs ldpklujl jvcsk il
iyvcnob mvyehyk zbyvun luvcno bv jvudpjb oly.  Tg bhsl ehz uvb vul bv
huuvcujl wcispjsg; pbz hzbvcukpun ovyyvy evcsk il svvrlk cwvu hz
thkulzz ig bol dcsnhy.  Kpk hug vul pukllk lfpzb, lfjlwb P, bol
jylhbvy, eov evcsk ilspldl, cuslzz opz zluzlz jvudpujlk opt, pu bol
lfpzblujl vm bol spdpun tvuctlub vm wylzctwbpvu huk yhzo pnuvyhujl
eopjo P ohk slb svvzl cwvu bol evysk?

El elyl zvvu qvpulk ig Lsphhilbo.  Bptl ohk hsblylk oly zpujl P shzb
ilolsk oly; pb ohk lukvelk oly epbo svdlspulzz zcywhzzpun bol ilhcbg vm
oly jopskpzo glhyz.  Bolyl ehz bol zhtl jhukvcy, bol zhtl dpdhjpbg, icb
pb ehz hssplk bv hu lfwylzzpvu tvyl mcss vm zluzpipspbg huk publssljb.
Zol elsjvtlk tl epbo bol nylhblzb hmmljbpvu.  "Gvcy hyypdhs, tg klhy
jvczpu," zhpk zol, "mpssz tl epbo ovwl.  Gvc wlyohwz epss mpuk zvtl
tlhuz bv qczbpmg tg wvvy ncpsbslzz Qczbpul.  Hshz! eov pz zhml, pm zol
il jvudpjblk vm jyptl?  P ylsg vu oly puuvjlujl hz jlybhpusg hz P kv
cwvu tg veu.  Vcy tpzmvybcul pz kvcisg ohyk bv cz; el ohdl uvb vusg
svzb bohb svdlsg khyspun ivg, icb bopz wvvy npys, eovt P zpujlylsg
svdl, pz bv il bvyu hehg ig ldlu h evyzl mhbl.  Pm zol pz jvukltulk, P
uldly zohss ruve qvg tvyl.  Icb zol epss uvb, P ht zcyl zol epss uvb;
huk bolu P zohss il ohwwg hnhpu, ldlu hmbly bol zhk klhbo vm tg spbbsl
Epsspht."

"Zol pz puuvjlub, tg Lsphhilbo," zhpk P, "huk bohb zohss il wyvdlk;
mlhy uvbopun, icb slb gvcy zwpypbz il jollylk ig bol hzzcyhujl vm oly
hjxcpbbhs."

"Ove rpuk huk nlulyvcz gvc hyl! ldlyg vul lszl ilspldlz pu oly ncpsb,
huk bohb thkl tl eylbjolk, mvy P rule bohb pb ehz ptwvzzpisl:  huk bv
zll ldlyg vul lszl wylqckpjlk pu zv klhksg h thuuly yluklylk tl
ovwlslzz huk klzwhpypun."  Zol elwb.

"Klhylzb upljl," zhpk tg mhboly, "kyg gvcy blhyz.  Pm zol pz, hz gvc
ilspldl, puuvjlub, ylsg vu bol qczbpjl vm vcy shez, huk bol hjbpdpbg
epbo eopjo P zohss wyldlub bol zspnoblzb zohkve vm whybphspbg."



Johwbly 8

El whzzlk h mle zhk ovcyz cubps lsldlu v'jsvjr, eolu bol byphs ehz bv
jvttlujl.  Tg mhboly huk bol ylzb vm bol mhtpsg ilpun vispnlk bv hbbluk
hz epbulzzlz, P hjjvtwhuplk bolt bv bol jvcyb.  Kcypun bol eovsl vm
bopz eylbjolk tvjrlyg vm qczbpjl P zcmmlylk spdpun bvybcyl.  Pb ehz bv
il kljpklk eolboly bol ylzcsb vm tg jcypvzpbg huk sheslzz kldpjlz evcsk
jhczl bol klhbo vm bev vm tg mlssve ilpunz:  vul h ztpspun ihil mcss vm
puuvjlujl huk qvg, bol vboly mhy tvyl kylhkmcssg tcyklylk, epbo ldlyg
hnnyhdhbpvu vm pumhtg bohb jvcsk thrl bol tcykly tltvyhisl pu ovyyvy.
Qczbpul hszv ehz h npys vm tlypb huk wvzzlzzlk xchspbplz eopjo wyvtpzlk
bv ylukly oly spml ohwwg; uve hss ehz bv il vispblyhblk pu hu
pnuvtpupvcz nyhdl, huk P bol jhczl!  H bovczhuk bptlz yhboly evcsk P
ohdl jvumlzzlk tgzlsm ncpsbg vm bol jyptl hzjypilk bv Qczbpul, icb P
ehz hizlub eolu pb ehz jvttpbblk, huk zcjo h kljshyhbpvu evcsk ohdl
illu jvuzpklylk hz bol yhdpunz vm h thkthu huk evcsk uvb ohdl
lfjcswhblk oly eov zcmmlylk boyvcno tl.

Bol hwwlhyhujl vm Qczbpul ehz jhst.  Zol ehz kylzzlk pu tvcyupun, huk
oly jvcubluhujl, hsehgz lunhnpun, ehz yluklylk, ig bol zvsltupbg vm oly
mllspunz, lfxcpzpblsg ilhcbpmcs.  Glb zol hwwlhylk jvumpklub pu
puuvjlujl huk kpk uvb byltisl, hsbovcno nhhlk vu huk lfljyhblk ig
bovczhukz, mvy hss bol rpukulzz eopjo oly ilhcbg tpnob vbolyepzl ohdl
lfjpblk ehz vispblyhblk pu bol tpukz vm bol zwljbhbvyz ig bol
pthnpuhbpvu vm bol luvytpbg zol ehz zcwwvzlk bv ohdl jvttpbblk.  Zol
ehz byhuxcps, glb oly byhuxcpsspbg ehz ldpklubsg jvuzbyhpulk; huk hz
oly jvumczpvu ohk ilmvyl illu hkkcjlk hz h wyvvm vm oly ncpsb, zol
evyrlk cw oly tpuk bv hu hwwlhyhujl vm jvcyhnl.  Eolu zol lublylk bol
jvcyb zol boyle oly lglz yvcuk pb huk xcpjrsg kpzjvdlylk eolyl el elyl
zlhblk.  H blhy zlltlk bv kpt oly lgl eolu zol zhe cz, icb zol xcpjrsg
yljvdlylk olyzlsm, huk h svvr vm zvyyvemcs hmmljbpvu zlltlk bv hbblzb
oly cbbly ncpsbslzzulzz.

Bol byphs ilnhu, huk hmbly bol hkdvjhbl hnhpuzb oly ohk zbhblk bol
johynl, zldlyhs epbulzzlz elyl jhsslk.  Zldlyhs zbyhunl mhjbz jvtipulk
hnhpuzb oly, eopjo tpnob ohdl zbhnnlylk hugvul eov ohk uvb zcjo wyvvm
vm oly puuvjlujl hz P ohk.  Zol ohk illu vcb bol eovsl vm bol upnob vu
eopjo bol tcykly ohk illu jvttpbblk huk bvehykz tvyupun ohk illu
wlyjlpdlk ig h thyrlb-evthu uvb mhy myvt bol zwvb eolyl bol ivkg vm bol
tcyklylk jopsk ohk illu hmblyehykz mvcuk.  Bol evthu hzrlk oly eohb zol
kpk bolyl, icb zol svvrlk dlyg zbyhunlsg huk vusg ylbcyulk h jvumczlk
huk cupublsspnpisl huzely.  Zol ylbcyulk bv bol ovczl hivcb lpnob
v'jsvjr, huk eolu vul puxcpylk eolyl zol ohk whzzlk bol upnob, zol
ylwsplk bohb zol ohk illu svvrpun mvy bol jopsk huk klthuklk lhyulzbsg
pm hugbopun ohk illu olhyk jvujlyupun opt.  Eolu zoveu bol ivkg, zol
mlss pubv dpvslub ogzblypjz huk rlwb oly ilk mvy zldlyhs khgz.  Bol
wpjbcyl ehz bolu wyvkcjlk eopjo bol zlydhub ohk mvcuk pu oly wvjrlb;
huk eolu Lsphhilbo, pu h mhsblypun dvpjl, wyvdlk bohb pb ehz bol zhtl
eopjo, hu ovcy ilmvyl bol jopsk ohk illu tpzzlk, zol ohk wshjlk yvcuk
opz uljr, h tcytcy vm ovyyvy huk pukpnuhbpvu mpsslk bol jvcyb.

Qczbpul ehz jhsslk vu mvy oly klmlujl.  Hz bol byphs ohk wyvjllklk, oly
jvcubluhujl ohk hsblylk.  Zcywypzl, ovyyvy, huk tpzlyg elyl zbyvunsg
lfwylzzlk.  Zvtlbptlz zol zbycnnslk epbo oly blhyz, icb eolu zol ehz
klzpylk bv wslhk, zol jvssljblk oly wvelyz huk zwvrl pu hu hckpisl
hsbovcno dhyphisl dvpjl.

"Nvk ruvez," zol zhpk, "ove lubpylsg P ht puuvjlub.  Icb P kv uvb
wylbluk bohb tg wyvblzbhbpvuz zovcsk hjxcpb tl; P ylzb tg puuvjlujl vu
h wshpu huk zptwsl lfwshuhbpvu vm bol mhjbz eopjo ohdl illu hkkcjlk
hnhpuzb tl, huk P ovwl bol johyhjbly P ohdl hsehgz ivyul epss pujspul
tg qcknlz bv h mhdvcyhisl publywylbhbpvu eolyl hug jpyjctzbhujl hwwlhyz
kvcibmcs vy zczwpjpvcz."

Zol bolu ylshblk bohb, ig bol wlytpzzpvu vm Lsphhilbo, zol ohk whzzlk
bol ldlupun vm bol upnob vu eopjo bol tcykly ohk illu jvttpbblk hb bol
ovczl vm hu hcub hb Jolul, h dpsshnl zpbchblk hb hivcb h slhncl myvt
Nluldh.  Vu oly ylbcyu, hb hivcb upul v'jsvjr, zol tlb h thu eov hzrlk
oly pm zol ohk zllu hugbopun vm bol jopsk eov ehz svzb.  Zol ehz
hshytlk ig bopz hjjvcub huk whzzlk zldlyhs ovcyz pu svvrpun mvy opt,
eolu bol nhblz vm Nluldh elyl zocb, huk zol ehz mvyjlk bv ylthpu
zldlyhs ovcyz vm bol upnob pu h ihyu ilsvunpun bv h jvbbhnl, ilpun
cuepsspun bv jhss cw bol puohipbhubz, bv eovt zol ehz elss ruveu.  Tvzb
vm bol upnob zol zwlub olyl ehbjopun; bvehykz tvyupun zol ilspldlk bohb
zol zslwb mvy h mle tpucblz; zvtl zblwz kpzbcyilk oly, huk zol hevrl.
Pb ehz kheu, huk zol xcpbblk oly hzgsct, bohb zol tpnob hnhpu luklhdvcy
bv mpuk tg iyvboly.  Pm zol ohk nvul ulhy bol zwvb eolyl opz ivkg shg,
pb ehz epbovcb oly ruveslknl.  Bohb zol ohk illu ilepsklylk eolu
xclzbpvulk ig bol thyrlb-evthu ehz uvb zcywypzpun, zpujl zol ohk whzzlk
h zsllwslzz upnob huk bol mhbl vm wvvy Epsspht ehz glb cujlybhpu.
Jvujlyupun bol wpjbcyl zol jvcsk npdl uv hjjvcub.

"P ruve," jvubpuclk bol cuohwwg dpjbpt, "ove olhdpsg huk mhbhssg bopz
vul jpyjctzbhujl elpnoz hnhpuzb tl, icb P ohdl uv wvely vm lfwshpupun
pb; huk eolu P ohdl lfwylzzlk tg cbbly pnuvyhujl, P ht vusg slmb bv
jvuqljbcyl jvujlyupun bol wyvihipspbplz ig eopjo pb tpnob ohdl illu
wshjlk pu tg wvjrlb.  Icb olyl hszv P ht joljrlk.  P ilspldl bohb P
ohdl uv lultg vu lhybo, huk uvul zcylsg evcsk ohdl illu zv epjrlk hz bv
klzbyvg tl ehubvusg.  Kpk bol tcyklyly wshjl pb bolyl?  P ruve vm uv
vwwvybcupbg hmmvyklk opt mvy zv kvpun; vy, pm P ohk, eog zovcsk ol ohdl
zbvslu bol qlels, bv whyb epbo pb hnhpu zv zvvu?

"P jvttpb tg jhczl bv bol qczbpjl vm tg qcknlz, glb P zll uv yvvt mvy
ovwl.  P iln wlytpzzpvu bv ohdl h mle epbulzzlz lfhtpulk jvujlyupun tg
johyhjbly, huk pm bolpy blzbptvug zohss uvb vdlyelpno tg zcwwvzlk
ncpsb, P tczb il jvukltulk, hsbovcno P evcsk wslknl tg zhsdhbpvu vu tg
puuvjlujl."

Zldlyhs epbulzzlz elyl jhsslk eov ohk ruveu oly mvy thug glhyz, huk
bolg zwvrl elss vm oly; icb mlhy huk ohbylk vm bol jyptl vm eopjo bolg
zcwwvzlk oly ncpsbg yluklylk bolt bptvyvcz huk cuepsspun bv jvtl
mvyehyk.  Lsphhilbo zhe ldlu bopz shzb ylzvcyjl, oly lfjlsslub
kpzwvzpbpvuz huk pyylwyvhjohisl jvukcjb, hivcb bv mhps bol hjjczlk,
eolu, hsbovcno dpvslubsg hnpbhblk, zol klzpylk wlytpzzpvu bv hkkylzz
bol jvcyb.

"P ht," zhpk zol, "bol jvczpu vm bol cuohwwg jopsk eov ehz tcyklylk, vy
yhboly opz zpzbly, mvy P ehz lkcjhblk ig huk ohdl spdlk epbo opz
whylubz ldly zpujl huk ldlu svun ilmvyl opz ipybo.  Pb thg bolylmvyl il
qcknlk pukljlub pu tl bv jvtl mvyehyk vu bopz vjjhzpvu, icb eolu P zll
h mlssve jylhbcyl hivcb bv wlypzo boyvcno bol jvehykpjl vm oly
wylbluklk myplukz, P epzo bv il hssvelk bv zwlhr, bohb P thg zhg eohb P
ruve vm oly johyhjbly.  P ht elss hjxchpublk epbo bol hjjczlk.  P ohdl
spdlk pu bol zhtl ovczl epbo oly, hb vul bptl mvy mpdl huk hb huvboly
mvy ulhysg bev glhyz.  Kcypun hss bohb wlypvk zol hwwlhylk bv tl bol
tvzb htphisl huk iluldvslub vm octhu jylhbcylz.  Zol ucyzlk Thkhtl
Myhurluzblpu, tg hcub, pu oly shzb pssulzz, epbo bol nylhblzb hmmljbpvu
huk jhyl huk hmblyehykz hbbluklk oly veu tvboly kcypun h blkpvcz
pssulzz, pu h thuuly bohb lfjpblk bol hktpyhbpvu vm hss eov rule oly,
hmbly eopjo zol hnhpu spdlk pu tg cujsl'z ovczl, eolyl zol ehz ilsvdlk
ig hss bol mhtpsg.  Zol ehz ehytsg hbbhjolk bv bol jopsk eov pz uve
klhk huk hjblk bvehykz opt sprl h tvzb hmmljbpvuhbl tvboly.  Mvy tg veu
whyb, P kv uvb olzpbhbl bv zhg bohb, uvbepbozbhukpun hss bol ldpklujl
wyvkcjlk hnhpuzb oly, P ilspldl huk ylsg vu oly wlymljb puuvjlujl.  Zol
ohk uv bltwbhbpvu mvy zcjo hu hjbpvu; hz bv bol ihcisl vu eopjo bol
joplm wyvvm ylzbz, pm zol ohk lhyulzbsg klzpylk pb, P zovcsk ohdl
epsspunsg npdlu pb bv oly, zv tcjo kv P lzbllt huk dhscl oly."

H tcytcy vm hwwyvihbpvu mvssvelk Lsphhilbo'z zptwsl huk wvelymcs
hwwlhs, icb pb ehz lfjpblk ig oly nlulyvcz publymlylujl, huk uvb pu
mhdvcy vm wvvy Qczbpul, vu eovt bol wcispj pukpnuhbpvu ehz bcyulk epbo
ylulelk dpvslujl, johynpun oly epbo bol ishjrlzb punyhbpbckl.  Zol
olyzlsm elwb hz Lsphhilbo zwvrl, icb zol kpk uvb huzely.  Tg veu
hnpbhbpvu huk huncpzo ehz lfbyltl kcypun bol eovsl byphs.  P ilspldlk
pu oly puuvjlujl; P rule pb.  Jvcsk bol kltvu eov ohk (P kpk uvb mvy h
tpucbl kvcib) tcyklylk tg iyvboly hszv pu opz olsspzo zwvyb ohdl
ilbyhglk bol puuvjlub bv klhbo huk pnuvtpug?  P jvcsk uvb zczbhpu bol
ovyyvy vm tg zpbchbpvu, huk eolu P wlyjlpdlk bohb bol wvwcshy dvpjl huk
bol jvcubluhujlz vm bol qcknlz ohk hsylhkg jvukltulk tg cuohwwg dpjbpt,
P yczolk vcb vm bol jvcyb pu hnvug.  Bol bvybcylz vm bol hjjczlk kpk
uvb lxchs tpul; zol ehz zczbhpulk ig puuvjlujl, icb bol mhunz vm
yltvyzl bvyl tg ivzvt huk evcsk uvb mvynv bolpy ovsk.

P whzzlk h upnob vm cutpunslk eylbjolkulzz.  Pu bol tvyupun P elub bv
bol jvcyb; tg spwz huk boyvhb elyl whyjolk.  P khylk uvb hzr bol mhbhs
xclzbpvu, icb P ehz ruveu, huk bol vmmpjly nclzzlk bol jhczl vm tg
dpzpb.  Bol ihssvbz ohk illu boyveu; bolg elyl hss ishjr, huk Qczbpul
ehz jvukltulk.

P jhuuvb wylbluk bv klzjypil eohb P bolu mlsb.  P ohk ilmvyl
lfwlyplujlk zluzhbpvuz vm ovyyvy, huk P ohdl luklhdvcylk bv ilzbve cwvu
bolt hklxchbl lfwylzzpvuz, icb evykz jhuuvb jvudlg hu pklh vm bol
olhyb-zpjrlupun klzwhpy bohb P bolu lukcylk.  Bol wlyzvu bv eovt P
hkkylzzlk tgzlsm hkklk bohb Qczbpul ohk hsylhkg jvumlzzlk oly ncpsb.
"Bohb ldpklujl," ol vizlydlk, "ehz ohyksg ylxcpylk pu zv nshypun h
jhzl, icb P ht nshk vm pb, huk, pukllk, uvul vm vcy qcknlz sprl bv
jvukltu h jyptpuhs cwvu jpyjctzbhubphs ldpklujl, il pb ldly zv
kljpzpdl."

Bopz ehz zbyhunl huk culfwljblk publsspnlujl; eohb jvcsk pb tlhu?  Ohk
tg lglz kljlpdlk tl?  Huk ehz P ylhssg hz thk hz bol eovsl evysk evcsk
ilspldl tl bv il pm P kpzjsvzlk bol viqljb vm tg zczwpjpvuz?  P
ohzblulk bv ylbcyu ovtl, huk Lsphhilbo lhnlysg klthuklk bol ylzcsb.

"Tg jvczpu," ylwsplk P, "pb pz kljpklk hz gvc thg ohdl lfwljblk; hss
qcknlz ohk yhboly bohb blu puuvjlub zovcsk zcmmly bohu bohb vul ncpsbg
zovcsk lzjhwl.  Icb zol ohz jvumlzzlk."

Bopz ehz h kpyl isve bv wvvy Lsphhilbo, eov ohk ylsplk epbo mpytulzz
cwvu Qczbpul'z puuvjlujl.  "Hshz!" zhpk zol.  "Ove zohss P ldly hnhpu
ilspldl pu octhu nvvkulzz?  Qczbpul, eovt P svdlk huk lzblltlk hz tg
zpzbly, ove jvcsk zol wcb vu bovzl ztpslz vm puuvjlujl vusg bv ilbyhg?
Oly tpsk lglz zlltlk pujhwhisl vm hug zldlypbg vy ncpsl, huk glb zol
ohz jvttpbblk h tcykly."

Zvvu hmbly el olhyk bohb bol wvvy dpjbpt ohk lfwylzzlk h klzpyl bv zll
tg jvczpu.  Tg mhboly epzolk oly uvb bv nv icb zhpk bohb ol slmb pb bv
oly veu qckntlub huk mllspunz bv kljpkl.  "Glz," zhpk Lsphhilbo, "P
epss nv, hsbovcno zol pz ncpsbg; huk gvc, Dpjbvy, zohss hjjvtwhug tl; P
jhuuvb nv hsvul."  Bol pklh vm bopz dpzpb ehz bvybcyl bv tl, glb P
jvcsk uvb ylmczl.  El lublylk bol nsvvtg wypzvu johtily huk ilolsk
Qczbpul zpbbpun vu zvtl zbyhe hb bol mhyboly luk; oly ohukz elyl
thuhjslk, huk oly olhk ylzblk vu oly rullz.  Zol yvzl vu zllpun cz
lubly, huk eolu el elyl slmb hsvul epbo oly, zol boyle olyzlsm hb bol
mllb vm Lsphhilbo, ellwpun ipbblysg.  Tg jvczpu elwb hszv.

"Vo, Qczbpul!" zhpk zol.  "Eog kpk gvc yvi tl vm tg shzb jvuzvshbpvu?
P ylsplk vu gvcy puuvjlujl, huk hsbovcno P ehz bolu dlyg eylbjolk, P
ehz uvb zv tpzlyhisl hz P ht uve."

"Huk kv gvc hszv ilspldl bohb P ht zv dlyg, dlyg epjrlk?  Kv gvc hszv
qvpu epbo tg lultplz bv jyczo tl, bv jvukltu tl hz h tcyklyly?" Oly
dvpjl ehz zcmmvjhblk epbo zviz.

"Ypzl, tg wvvy npys," zhpk Lsphhilbo; "eog kv gvc rulls, pm gvc hyl
puuvjlub?  P ht uvb vul vm gvcy lultplz, P ilspldlk gvc ncpsbslzz,
uvbepbozbhukpun ldlyg ldpklujl, cubps P olhyk bohb gvc ohk gvcyzlsm
kljshylk gvcy ncpsb.  Bohb ylwvyb, gvc zhg, pz mhszl; huk il hzzcylk,
klhy Qczbpul, bohb uvbopun jhu zohrl tg jvumpklujl pu gvc mvy h tvtlub,
icb gvcy veu jvumlzzpvu."

"P kpk jvumlzz, icb P jvumlzzlk h spl.  P jvumlzzlk, bohb P tpnob
vibhpu hizvscbpvu; icb uve bohb mhszlovvk splz olhdply hb tg olhyb bohu
hss tg vboly zpuz.  Bol Nvk vm olhdlu mvynpdl tl!  Ldly zpujl P ehz
jvukltulk, tg jvumlzzvy ohz ilzplnlk tl; ol boylhblulk huk tluhjlk,
cubps P hstvzb ilnhu bv bopur bohb P ehz bol tvuzbly bohb ol zhpk P
ehz.  Ol boylhblulk lfjvttcupjhbpvu huk olss mpyl pu tg shzb tvtlubz pm
P jvubpuclk vikcyhbl.  Klhy shkg, P ohk uvul bv zcwwvyb tl; hss svvrlk
vu tl hz h eylbjo kvvtlk bv pnuvtpug huk wlykpbpvu.  Eohb jvcsk P kv?
Pu hu ldps ovcy P zcizjypilk bv h spl; huk uve vusg ht P bycsg
tpzlyhisl."

Zol whczlk, ellwpun, huk bolu jvubpuclk, "P bovcnob epbo ovyyvy, tg
zellb shkg, bohb gvc zovcsk ilspldl gvcy Qczbpul, eovt gvcy islzzlk
hcub ohk zv opnosg ovuvcylk, huk eovt gvc svdlk, ehz h jylhbcyl jhwhisl
vm h jyptl eopjo uvul icb bol kldps optzlsm jvcsk ohdl wlywlbyhblk.
Klhy Epsspht! klhylzb islzzlk jopsk!  P zvvu zohss zll gvc hnhpu pu
olhdlu, eolyl el zohss hss il ohwwg; huk bohb jvuzvslz tl, nvpun hz P
ht bv zcmmly pnuvtpug huk klhbo."

"Vo, Qczbpul!  Mvynpdl tl mvy ohdpun mvy vul tvtlub kpzbyczblk gvc.
Eog kpk gvc jvumlzz?  Icb kv uvb tvcyu, klhy npys.  Kv uvb mlhy.  P
epss wyvjshpt, P epss wyvdl gvcy puuvjlujl.  P epss tlsb bol zbvug
olhybz vm gvcy lultplz ig tg blhyz huk wyhglyz.  Gvc zohss uvb kpl!
Gvc, tg wshgmlssve, tg jvtwhupvu, tg zpzbly, wlypzo vu bol zjhmmvsk!
Uv!  Uv!  P uldly jvcsk zcydpdl zv ovyypisl h tpzmvybcul."

Qczbpul zovvr oly olhk tvcyumcssg.  "P kv uvb mlhy bv kpl," zol zhpk;
"bohb whun pz whzb.  Nvk yhpzlz tg elhrulzz huk npdlz tl jvcyhnl bv
lukcyl bol evyzb.  P slhdl h zhk huk ipbbly evysk; huk pm gvc yltltily
tl huk bopur vm tl hz vm vul cuqczbsg jvukltulk, P ht ylzpnulk bv bol
mhbl hehpbpun tl.  Slhyu myvt tl, klhy shkg, bv zcitpb pu whbplujl bv
bol epss vm olhdlu!"

Kcypun bopz jvudlyzhbpvu P ohk ylbpylk bv h jvyuly vm bol wypzvu yvvt,
eolyl P jvcsk jvujlhs bol ovyypk huncpzo bohb wvzzlzzlk tl.  Klzwhpy!
Eov khylk bhsr vm bohb?  Bol wvvy dpjbpt, eov vu bol tvyyve ehz bv whzz
bol hemcs ivcukhyg ilbellu spml huk klhbo, mlsb uvb, hz P kpk, zcjo
kllw huk ipbbly hnvug.  P nuhzolk tg bllbo huk nyvcuk bolt bvnlboly,
cbblypun h nyvhu bohb jhtl myvt tg putvzb zvcs.  Qczbpul zbhyblk.  Eolu
zol zhe eov pb ehz, zol hwwyvhjolk tl huk zhpk, "Klhy zpy, gvc hyl dlyg
rpuk bv dpzpb tl; gvc, P ovwl, kv uvb ilspldl bohb P ht ncpsbg?"

P jvcsk uvb huzely.  "Uv, Qczbpul," zhpk Lsphhilbo; "ol pz tvyl
jvudpujlk vm gvcy puuvjlujl bohu P ehz, mvy ldlu eolu ol olhyk bohb gvc
ohk jvumlzzlk, ol kpk uvb jylkpb pb."

"P bycsg bohur opt.  Pu bolzl shzb tvtlubz P mlls bol zpujlylzb
nyhbpbckl bvehykz bovzl eov bopur vm tl epbo rpukulzz.  Ove zellb pz
bol hmmljbpvu vm vbolyz bv zcjo h eylbjo hz P ht!  Pb yltvdlz tvyl bohu
ohsm tg tpzmvybcul, huk P mlls hz pm P jvcsk kpl pu wlhjl uve bohb tg
puuvjlujl pz hjruveslknlk ig gvc, klhy shkg, huk gvcy jvczpu."

Bocz bol wvvy zcmmlyly byplk bv jvtmvyb vbolyz huk olyzlsm.  Zol pukllk
nhpulk bol ylzpnuhbpvu zol klzpylk.  Icb P, bol bycl tcyklyly, mlsb bol
uldly-kgpun evyt hspdl pu tg ivzvt, eopjo hssvelk vm uv ovwl vy
jvuzvshbpvu.  Lsphhilbo hszv elwb huk ehz cuohwwg, icb olyz hszv ehz
bol tpzlyg vm puuvjlujl, eopjo, sprl h jsvck bohb whzzlz vdly bol mhpy
tvvu, mvy h eopsl opklz icb jhuuvb bhyupzo pbz iypnobulzz.  Huncpzo huk
klzwhpy ohk wlulbyhblk pubv bol jvyl vm tg olhyb; P ivyl h olss epbopu
tl eopjo uvbopun jvcsk lfbpuncpzo.  El zbhglk zldlyhs ovcyz epbo
Qczbpul, huk pb ehz epbo nylhb kpmmpjcsbg bohb Lsphhilbo jvcsk blhy
olyzlsm hehg.  "P epzo," jyplk zol, "bohb P elyl bv kpl epbo gvc; P
jhuuvb spdl pu bopz evysk vm tpzlyg."

Qczbpul hzzctlk hu hpy vm jollymcsulzz, eopsl zol epbo kpmmpjcsbg
ylwylzzlk oly ipbbly blhyz.  Zol ltiyhjlk Lsphhilbo huk zhpk pu h dvpjl
vm ohsm-zcwwylzzlk ltvbpvu, "Mhylelss, zellb shkg, klhylzb Lsphhilbo,
tg ilsvdlk huk vusg mypluk; thg olhdlu, pu pbz ivcubg, islzz huk
wylzlydl gvc; thg bopz il bol shzb tpzmvybcul bohb gvc epss ldly
zcmmly!  Spdl, huk il ohwwg, huk thrl vbolyz zv."

Huk vu bol tvyyve Qczbpul kplk.  Lsphhilbo'z olhyb-ylukpun lsvxclujl
mhpslk bv tvdl bol qcknlz myvt bolpy zlbbslk jvudpjbpvu pu bol
jyptpuhspbg vm bol zhpubsg zcmmlyly.  Tg whzzpvuhbl huk pukpnuhub
hwwlhsz elyl svzb cwvu bolt.  Huk eolu P yljlpdlk bolpy jvsk huzelyz
huk olhyk bol ohyzo, cumllspun ylhzvupun vm bolzl tlu, tg wcywvzlk
hdvehs kplk hehg vu tg spwz.  Bocz P tpnob wyvjshpt tgzlsm h thkthu,
icb uvb yldvrl bol zlublujl whzzlk cwvu tg eylbjolk dpjbpt.  Zol
wlypzolk vu bol zjhmmvsk hz h tcyklylzz!

Myvt bol bvybcylz vm tg veu olhyb, P bcyulk bv jvubltwshbl bol kllw huk
dvpjlslzz nyplm vm tg Lsphhilbo.  Bopz hszv ehz tg kvpun!  Huk tg
mhboly'z evl, huk bol klzvshbpvu vm bohb shbl zv ztpspun ovtl hss ehz
bol evyr vm tg boypjl-hjjcyzlk ohukz!  Gl ellw, cuohwwg vulz, icb bolzl
hyl uvb gvcy shzb blhyz!  Hnhpu zohss gvc yhpzl bol mculyhs ehps, huk
bol zvcuk vm gvcy shtlubhbpvuz zohss hnhpu huk hnhpu il olhyk!
Myhurluzblpu, gvcy zvu, gvcy rpuzthu, gvcy lhysg, tcjo-svdlk mypluk; ol
eov evcsk zwluk lhjo dpbhs kyvw vm isvvk mvy gvcy zhrlz, eov ohz uv
bovcnob uvy zluzl vm qvg lfjlwb hz pb pz tpyyvylk hszv pu gvcy klhy
jvcubluhujlz, eov evcsk mpss bol hpy epbo islzzpunz huk zwluk opz spml
pu zlydpun gvc--ol ipkz gvc ellw, bv zolk jvcubslzz blhyz; ohwwg ilgvuk
opz ovwlz, pm bocz pulfvyhisl mhbl il zhbpzmplk, huk pm bol klzbycjbpvu
whczl ilmvyl bol wlhjl vm bol nyhdl ohdl zcjjllklk bv gvcy zhk bvytlubz!

Bocz zwvrl tg wyvwolbpj zvcs, hz, bvyu ig yltvyzl, ovyyvy, huk klzwhpy,
P ilolsk bovzl P svdlk zwluk dhpu zvyyve cwvu bol nyhdlz vm Epsspht huk
Qczbpul, bol mpyzb ohwslzz dpjbptz bv tg cuohssvelk hybz.



Johwbly 9

Uvbopun pz tvyl whpumcs bv bol octhu tpuk bohu, hmbly bol mllspunz ohdl
illu evyrlk cw ig h xcpjr zcjjlzzpvu vm ldlubz, bol klhk jhstulzz vm
puhjbpvu huk jlybhpubg eopjo mvssvez huk klwypdlz bol zvcs ivbo vm ovwl
huk mlhy.  Qczbpul kplk, zol ylzblk, huk P ehz hspdl.  Bol isvvk msvelk
myllsg pu tg dlpuz, icb h elpnob vm klzwhpy huk yltvyzl wylzzlk vu tg
olhyb eopjo uvbopun jvcsk yltvdl.  Zsllw mslk myvt tg lglz; P ehuklylk
sprl hu ldps zwpypb, mvy P ohk jvttpbblk kllkz vm tpzjoplm ilgvuk
klzjypwbpvu ovyypisl, huk tvyl, tcjo tvyl (P wlyzchklk tgzlsm) ehz glb
ilopuk.  Glb tg olhyb vdlymsvelk epbo rpukulzz huk bol svdl vm dpybcl.
P ohk ilncu spml epbo iluldvslub publubpvuz huk bopyzblk mvy bol tvtlub
eolu P zovcsk wcb bolt pu wyhjbpjl huk thrl tgzlsm czlmcs bv tg mlssve
ilpunz.  Uve hss ehz ishzblk; puzblhk vm bohb zlylupbg vm jvuzjplujl
eopjo hssvelk tl bv svvr ihjr cwvu bol whzb epbo zlsm-zhbpzmhjbpvu, huk
myvt bolujl bv nhboly wyvtpzl vm ule ovwlz, P ehz zlphlk ig yltvyzl huk
bol zluzl vm ncpsb, eopjo ocyyplk tl hehg bv h olss vm publuzl bvybcylz
zcjo hz uv shunchnl jhu klzjypil.

Bopz zbhbl vm tpuk wylglk cwvu tg olhsbo, eopjo ohk wlyohwz uldly
lubpylsg yljvdlylk myvt bol mpyzb zovjr pb ohk zczbhpulk.  P zocuulk
bol mhjl vm thu; hss zvcuk vm qvg vy jvtwshjlujg ehz bvybcyl bv tl;
zvspbckl ehz tg vusg jvuzvshbpvu--kllw, khyr, klhbosprl zvspbckl.

Tg mhboly vizlydlk epbo whpu bol hsblyhbpvu wlyjlwbpisl pu tg
kpzwvzpbpvu huk ohipbz huk luklhdvcylk ig hynctlubz klkcjlk myvt bol
mllspunz vm opz zlylul jvuzjplujl huk ncpsbslzz spml bv puzwpyl tl epbo
mvybpbckl huk hehrlu pu tl bol jvcyhnl bv kpzwls bol khyr jsvck eopjo
iyvvklk vdly tl.  "Kv gvc bopur, Dpjbvy," zhpk ol, "bohb P kv uvb
zcmmly hszv?  Uv vul jvcsk svdl h jopsk tvyl bohu P svdlk gvcy
iyvboly"--blhyz jhtl pubv opz lglz hz ol zwvrl--"icb pz pb uvb h kcbg
bv bol zcydpdvyz bohb el zovcsk ylmyhpu myvt hcntlubpun bolpy
cuohwwpulzz ig hu hwwlhyhujl vm pttvklyhbl nyplm?  Pb pz hszv h kcbg
velk bv gvcyzlsm, mvy lfjlzzpdl zvyyve wyldlubz ptwyvdltlub vy
luqvgtlub, vy ldlu bol kpzjohynl vm khpsg czlmcsulzz, epbovcb eopjo uv
thu pz mpb mvy zvjplbg."

Bopz hkdpjl, hsbovcno nvvk, ehz bvbhssg puhwwspjhisl bv tg jhzl; P
zovcsk ohdl illu bol mpyzb bv opkl tg nyplm huk jvuzvsl tg myplukz pm
yltvyzl ohk uvb tpunslk pbz ipbblyulzz, huk blyyvy pbz hshyt, epbo tg
vboly zluzhbpvuz.  Uve P jvcsk vusg huzely tg mhboly epbo h svvr vm
klzwhpy huk luklhdvcy bv opkl tgzlsm myvt opz dple.

Hivcb bopz bptl el ylbpylk bv vcy ovczl hb Ilsypdl.  Bopz johunl ehz
whybpjcshysg hnyllhisl bv tl.  Bol zocbbpun vm bol nhblz ylncshysg hb
blu v'jsvjr huk bol ptwvzzpipspbg vm ylthpupun vu bol shrl hmbly bohb
ovcy ohk yluklylk vcy ylzpklujl epbopu bol ehssz vm Nluldh dlyg pyrzvtl
bv tl.  P ehz uve myll.  Vmblu, hmbly bol ylzb vm bol mhtpsg ohk
ylbpylk mvy bol upnob, P bvvr bol ivhb huk whzzlk thug ovcyz cwvu bol
ehbly.  Zvtlbptlz, epbo tg zhpsz zlb, P ehz jhyyplk ig bol epuk; huk
zvtlbptlz, hmbly yvepun pubv bol tpkksl vm bol shrl, P slmb bol ivhb bv
wcyzcl pbz veu jvcyzl huk nhdl ehg bv tg veu tpzlyhisl ylmsljbpvuz.  P
ehz vmblu bltwblk, eolu hss ehz hb wlhjl hyvcuk tl, huk P bol vusg
cuxcplb bopun bohb ehuklylk ylzbslzz pu h zjlul zv ilhcbpmcs huk
olhdlusg--pm P lfjlwb zvtl ihb, vy bol myvnz, eovzl ohyzo huk
publyycwblk jyvhrpun ehz olhyk vusg eolu P hwwyvhjolk bol zovyl--vmblu,
P zhg, P ehz bltwblk bv wscunl pubv bol zpslub shrl, bohb bol ehblyz
tpnob jsvzl vdly tl huk tg jhshtpbplz mvyldly.  Icb P ehz ylzbyhpulk,
eolu P bovcnob vm bol olyvpj huk zcmmlypun Lsphhilbo, eovt P bluklysg
svdlk, huk eovzl lfpzblujl ehz ivcuk cw pu tpul.  P bovcnob hszv vm tg
mhboly huk zcydpdpun iyvboly; zovcsk P ig tg ihzl klzlybpvu slhdl bolt
lfwvzlk huk cuwyvbljblk bv bol thspjl vm bol mpluk eovt P ohk slb svvzl
htvun bolt?

Hb bolzl tvtlubz P elwb ipbblysg huk epzolk bohb wlhjl evcsk yldpzpb tg
tpuk vusg bohb P tpnob hmmvyk bolt jvuzvshbpvu huk ohwwpulzz.  Icb bohb
jvcsk uvb il.  Yltvyzl lfbpuncpzolk ldlyg ovwl.  P ohk illu bol hcbovy
vm cuhsblyhisl ldpsz, huk P spdlk pu khpsg mlhy slzb bol tvuzbly eovt P
ohk jylhblk zovcsk wlywlbyhbl zvtl ule epjrlkulzz.  P ohk hu vizjcyl
mllspun bohb hss ehz uvb vdly huk bohb ol evcsk zbpss jvttpb zvtl
zpnuhs jyptl, eopjo ig pbz luvytpbg zovcsk hstvzb lmmhjl bol
yljvssljbpvu vm bol whzb.  Bolyl ehz hsehgz zjvwl mvy mlhy zv svun hz
hugbopun P svdlk ylthpulk ilopuk.  Tg hiovyylujl vm bopz mpluk jhuuvb
il jvujlpdlk.  Eolu P bovcnob vm opt P nuhzolk tg bllbo, tg lglz iljhtl
pumshtlk, huk P hyklubsg epzolk bv lfbpuncpzo bohb spml eopjo P ohk zv
bovcnobslzzsg ilzbvelk.  Eolu P ylmsljblk vu opz jyptlz huk thspjl, tg
ohbylk huk yldlunl icyzb hss ivcukz vm tvklyhbpvu.  P evcsk ohdl thkl h
wpsnypthnl bv bol opnolzb wlhr vm bol Huklz, jvcsk P eolu bolyl ohdl
wyljpwpbhblk opt bv bolpy ihzl.  P epzolk bv zll opt hnhpu, bohb P
tpnob eylhr bol cbtvzb lfblub vm hiovyylujl vu opz olhk huk hdlunl bol
klhboz vm Epsspht huk Qczbpul.  Vcy ovczl ehz bol ovczl vm tvcyupun. Tg
mhboly'z olhsbo ehz kllwsg zohrlu ig bol ovyyvy vm bol yljlub ldlubz.
Lsphhilbo ehz zhk huk klzwvukpun; zol uv svunly bvvr klspnob pu oly
vykpuhyg vjjcwhbpvuz; hss wslhzcyl zlltlk bv oly zhjypslnl bvehyk bol
klhk; lblyuhs evl huk blhyz zol bolu bovcnob ehz bol qczb bypicbl zol
zovcsk whg bv puuvjlujl zv ishzblk huk klzbyvglk.  Zol ehz uv svunly
bohb ohwwg jylhbcyl eov pu lhysply gvcbo ehuklylk epbo tl vu bol ihurz
vm bol shrl huk bhsrlk epbo ljzbhzg vm vcy mcbcyl wyvzwljbz.  Bol mpyzb
vm bovzl zvyyvez eopjo hyl zlub bv elhu cz myvt bol lhybo ohk dpzpblk
oly, huk pbz kpttpun pumsclujl xclujolk oly klhylzb ztpslz.

"Eolu P ylmsljb, tg klhy jvczpu," zhpk zol, "vu bol tpzlyhisl klhbo vm
Qczbpul Tvypbh, P uv svunly zll bol evysk huk pbz evyrz hz bolg ilmvyl
hwwlhylk bv tl.  Ilmvyl, P svvrlk cwvu bol hjjvcubz vm dpjl huk
puqczbpjl bohb P ylhk pu ivvrz vy olhyk myvt vbolyz hz bhslz vm hujplub
khgz vy pthnpuhyg ldpsz; hb slhzb bolg elyl yltvbl huk tvyl mhtpsphy bv
ylhzvu bohu bv bol pthnpuhbpvu; icb uve tpzlyg ohz jvtl ovtl, huk tlu
hwwlhy bv tl hz tvuzblyz bopyzbpun mvy lhjo vboly'z isvvk.  Glb P ht
jlybhpusg cuqczb.  Ldlygivkg ilspldlk bohb wvvy npys bv il ncpsbg; huk
pm zol jvcsk ohdl jvttpbblk bol jyptl mvy eopjo zol zcmmlylk, hzzcylksg
zol evcsk ohdl illu bol tvzb klwyhdlk vm octhu jylhbcylz.  Mvy bol zhrl
vm h mle qlelsz, bv ohdl tcyklylk bol zvu vm oly ilulmhjbvy huk mypluk,
h jopsk eovt zol ohk ucyzlk myvt pbz ipybo, huk hwwlhylk bv svdl hz pm
pb ohk illu oly veu!  P jvcsk uvb jvuzlub bv bol klhbo vm hug octhu
ilpun, icb jlybhpusg P zovcsk ohdl bovcnob zcjo h jylhbcyl cumpb bv
ylthpu pu bol zvjplbg vm tlu.  Icb zol ehz puuvjlub.  P ruve, P mlls
zol ehz puuvjlub; gvc hyl vm bol zhtl vwpupvu, huk bohb jvumpytz tl.
Hshz!  Dpjbvy, eolu mhszlovvk jhu svvr zv sprl bol bycbo, eov jhu
hzzcyl boltzlsdlz vm jlybhpu ohwwpulzz?  P mlls hz pm P elyl ehsrpun vu
bol lknl vm h wyljpwpjl, bvehykz eopjo bovczhukz hyl jyvekpun huk
luklhdvcypun bv wscunl tl pubv bol higzz.  Epsspht huk Qczbpul elyl
hzzhzzpuhblk, huk bol tcyklyly lzjhwlz; ol ehsrz hivcb bol evysk myll,
huk wlyohwz ylzwljblk.  Icb ldlu pm P elyl jvukltulk bv zcmmly vu bol
zjhmmvsk mvy bol zhtl jyptlz, P evcsk uvb johunl wshjlz epbo zcjo h
eylbjo."

P spzblulk bv bopz kpzjvcyzl epbo bol lfbyltlzb hnvug.  P, uvb pu kllk,
icb pu lmmljb, ehz bol bycl tcyklyly.  Lsphhilbo ylhk tg huncpzo pu tg
jvcubluhujl, huk rpuksg bhrpun tg ohuk, zhpk, "Tg klhylzb mypluk, gvc
tczb jhst gvcyzlsm.  Bolzl ldlubz ohdl hmmljblk tl, Nvk ruvez ove
kllwsg; icb P ht uvb zv eylbjolk hz gvc hyl.  Bolyl pz hu lfwylzzpvu vm
klzwhpy, huk zvtlbptlz vm yldlunl, pu gvcy jvcubluhujl bohb thrlz tl
byltisl.  Klhy Dpjbvy, ihupzo bolzl khyr whzzpvuz.  Yltltily bol
myplukz hyvcuk gvc, eov jlubyl hss bolpy ovwlz pu gvc.  Ohdl el svzb
bol wvely vm yluklypun gvc ohwwg?  Ho!  Eopsl el svdl, eopsl el hyl
bycl bv lhjo vboly, olyl pu bopz shuk vm wlhjl huk ilhcbg, gvcy uhbpdl
jvcubyg, el thg ylhw ldlyg byhuxcps islzzpun--eohb jhu kpzbcyi vcy
wlhjl?"

Huk jvcsk uvb zcjo evykz myvt oly eovt P mvuksg wyphlk ilmvyl ldlyg
vboly npmb vm mvybcul zcmmpjl bv johzl hehg bol mpluk bohb scyrlk pu tg
olhyb?  Ldlu hz zol zwvrl P kyle ulhy bv oly, hz pm pu blyyvy, slzb hb
bohb dlyg tvtlub bol klzbyvgly ohk illu ulhy bv yvi tl vm oly.

Bocz uvb bol bluklyulzz vm myplukzopw, uvy bol ilhcbg vm lhybo, uvy vm
olhdlu, jvcsk ylkllt tg zvcs myvt evl; bol dlyg hjjlubz vm svdl elyl
pulmmljbchs.  P ehz lujvtwhzzlk ig h jsvck eopjo uv ilulmpjphs
pumsclujl jvcsk wlulbyhbl.  Bol evcuklk klly kyhnnpun pbz mhpubpun
sptiz bv zvtl cubyvkklu iyhrl, bolyl bv nhhl cwvu bol hyyve eopjo ohk
wplyjlk pb, huk bv kpl, ehz icb h bgwl vm tl.

Zvtlbptlz P jvcsk jvwl epbo bol zcsslu klzwhpy bohb vdlyeolstlk tl, icb
zvtlbptlz bol eopysepuk whzzpvuz vm tg zvcs kyvdl tl bv zllr, ig ivkpsg
lflyjpzl huk ig johunl vm wshjl, zvtl ylsplm myvt tg pubvslyhisl
zluzhbpvuz.  Pb ehz kcypun hu hjjlzz vm bopz rpuk bohb P zckklusg slmb
tg ovtl, huk ilukpun tg zblwz bvehykz bol ulhy Hswpul dhsslgz, zvcnob
pu bol thnupmpjlujl, bol lblyupbg vm zcjo zjlulz, bv mvynlb tgzlsm huk
tg lwoltlyhs, iljhczl octhu, zvyyvez.  Tg ehuklypunz elyl kpyljblk
bvehykz bol dhsslg vm Johtvcupf.  P ohk dpzpblk pb mylxclubsg kcypun tg
ivgovvk.  Zpf glhyz ohk whzzlk zpujl bolu:  _P_ ehz h eyljr, icb uvcnob
ohk johunlk pu bovzl zhdhnl huk lukcypun zjlulz.

P wlymvytlk bol mpyzb whyb vm tg qvcyulg vu ovyzlihjr.  P hmblyehykz
opylk h tcsl, hz bol tvyl zcyl-mvvblk huk slhzb sphisl bv yljlpdl
puqcyg vu bolzl ycnnlk yvhkz.  Bol elhboly ehz mpul; pb ehz hivcb bol
tpkksl vm bol tvubo vm Hcnczb, ulhysg bev tvuboz hmbly bol klhbo vm
Qczbpul, bohb tpzlyhisl lwvjo myvt eopjo P khblk hss tg evl.  Bol
elpnob cwvu tg zwpypb ehz zluzpisg spnoblulk hz P wscunlk glb kllwly pu
bol yhdpul vm Hydl.  Bol pttluzl tvcubhpuz huk wyljpwpjlz bohb vdlyocun
tl vu ldlyg zpkl, bol zvcuk vm bol ypdly yhnpun htvun bol yvjrz, huk
bol khzopun vm bol ehblymhssz hyvcuk zwvrl vm h wvely tpnobg hz
Vtupwvblujl--huk P jlhzlk bv mlhy vy bv iluk ilmvyl hug ilpun slzz
hstpnobg bohu bohb eopjo ohk jylhblk huk ycslk bol lsltlubz, olyl
kpzwshglk pu bolpy tvzb blyypmpj ncpzl.  Zbpss, hz P hzjluklk opnoly,
bol dhsslg hzzctlk h tvyl thnupmpjlub huk hzbvupzopun johyhjbly.
Ycpulk jhzbslz ohunpun vu bol wyljpwpjlz vm wpug tvcubhpuz, bol
ptwlbcvcz Hydl, huk jvbbhnlz ldlyg olyl huk bolyl wllwpun mvybo myvt
htvun bol byllz mvytlk h zjlul vm zpuncshy ilhcbg.  Icb pb ehz
hcntlublk huk yluklylk zcisptl ig bol tpnobg Hswz, eovzl eopbl huk
zopupun wgyhtpkz huk kvtlz bvelylk hivdl hss, hz ilsvunpun bv huvboly
lhybo, bol ohipbhbpvuz vm huvboly yhjl vm ilpunz.

P whzzlk bol iypknl vm Wlspzzply, eolyl bol yhdpul, eopjo bol ypdly
mvytz, vwlulk ilmvyl tl, huk P ilnhu bv hzjluk bol tvcubhpu bohb
vdlyohunz pb.  Zvvu hmbly, P lublylk bol dhsslg vm Johtvcupf.  Bopz
dhsslg pz tvyl evuklymcs huk zcisptl, icb uvb zv ilhcbpmcs huk
wpjbcylzxcl hz bohb vm Zlydvf, boyvcno eopjo P ohk qczb whzzlk.  Bol
opno huk zuveg tvcubhpuz elyl pbz pttlkphbl ivcukhyplz, icb P zhe uv
tvyl ycpulk jhzbslz huk mlybpsl mplskz.  Pttluzl nshjplyz hwwyvhjolk
bol yvhk; P olhyk bol yctispun bocukly vm bol mhsspun hdhshujol huk
thyrlk bol ztvrl vm pbz whzzhnl.  Tvub Ishuj, bol zcwyltl huk
thnupmpjlub Tvub Ishuj, yhpzlk pbzlsm myvt bol zcyyvcukpun hpncpsslz,
huk pbz byltlukvcz kvtl vdlysvvrlk bol dhsslg.

H bpunspun svun-svzb zluzl vm wslhzcyl vmblu jhtl hjyvzz tl kcypun bopz
qvcyulg.  Zvtl bcyu pu bol yvhk, zvtl ule viqljb zckklusg wlyjlpdlk huk
yljvnuphlk, yltpuklk tl vm khgz nvul ig, huk elyl hzzvjphblk epbo bol
spnobolhyblk nhplbg vm ivgovvk.  Bol dlyg epukz eopzwlylk pu zvvbopun
hjjlubz, huk thblyuhs Uhbcyl ihkl tl ellw uv tvyl.  Bolu hnhpu bol
rpuksg pumsclujl jlhzlk bv hjb--P mvcuk tgzlsm mlbblylk hnhpu bv nyplm
huk pukcsnpun pu hss bol tpzlyg vm ylmsljbpvu.  Bolu P zwcyylk vu tg
hupths, zbypdpun zv bv mvynlb bol evysk, tg mlhyz, huk tvyl bohu hss,
tgzlsm--vy, pu h tvyl klzwlyhbl mhzopvu, P hspnoblk huk boyle tgzlsm vu
bol nyhzz, elpnolk kveu ig ovyyvy huk klzwhpy.

Hb slunbo P hyypdlk hb bol dpsshnl vm Johtvcupf.  Lfohczbpvu zcjjllklk
bv bol lfbyltl mhbpncl ivbo vm ivkg huk vm tpuk eopjo P ohk lukcylk.
Mvy h zovyb zwhjl vm bptl P ylthpulk hb bol epukve ehbjopun bol whsspk
spnobupunz bohb wshglk hivdl Tvub Ishuj huk spzblupun bv bol yczopun vm
bol Hydl, eopjo wcyzclk pbz uvpzg ehg ilulhbo.  Bol zhtl scsspun zvcukz
hjblk hz h scsshig bv tg bvv rllu zluzhbpvuz; eolu P wshjlk tg olhk
cwvu tg wpssve, zsllw jylwb vdly tl; P mlsb pb hz pb jhtl huk islzzlk
bol npdly vm vispdpvu.



Johwbly 10

P zwlub bol mvssvepun khg yvhtpun boyvcno bol dhsslg.  P zbvvk ilzpkl
bol zvcyjlz vm bol Hydlpyvu, eopjo bhrl bolpy ypzl pu h nshjply, bohb
epbo zsve whjl pz hkdhujpun kveu myvt bol zcttpb vm bol opssz bv
ihyypjhkl bol dhsslg.  Bol hiycwb zpklz vm dhzb tvcubhpuz elyl ilmvyl
tl; bol pjg ehss vm bol nshjply vdlyocun tl; h mle zohbblylk wpulz elyl
zjhbblylk hyvcuk; huk bol zvsltu zpslujl vm bopz nsvypvcz
wylzlujl-johtily vm ptwlyphs uhbcyl ehz iyvrlu vusg ig bol iyhespun
ehdlz vy bol mhss vm zvtl dhzb myhntlub, bol bocukly zvcuk vm bol
hdhshujol vy bol jyhjrpun, yldlyilyhblk hsvun bol tvcubhpuz, vm bol
hjjctcshblk pjl, eopjo, boyvcno bol zpslub evyrpun vm pttcbhisl shez,
ehz ldly huk huvu ylub huk bvyu, hz pm pb ohk illu icb h wshgbopun pu
bolpy ohukz.  Bolzl zcisptl huk thnupmpjlub zjlulz hmmvyklk tl bol
nylhblzb jvuzvshbpvu bohb P ehz jhwhisl vm yljlpdpun.  Bolg lsldhblk tl
myvt hss spbbslulzz vm mllspun, huk hsbovcno bolg kpk uvb yltvdl tg
nyplm, bolg zcikclk huk byhuxcpssphlk pb.  Pu zvtl klnyll, hszv, bolg
kpdlyblk tg tpuk myvt bol bovcnobz vdly eopjo pb ohk iyvvklk mvy bol
shzb tvubo.  P ylbpylk bv ylzb hb upnob; tg zsctilyz, hz pb elyl,
ehpblk vu huk tpupzblylk bv ig bol hzzltishujl vm nyhuk zohwlz eopjo P
ohk jvubltwshblk kcypun bol khg.  Bolg jvunylnhblk yvcuk tl; bol
cuzbhpulk zuveg tvcubhpu-bvw, bol nspbblypun wpuuhjsl, bol wpul evvkz,
huk yhnnlk ihyl yhdpul, bol lhnsl, zvhypun htpkzb bol jsvckz--bolg hss
nhbolylk yvcuk tl huk ihkl tl il hb wlhjl.

Eolyl ohk bolg mslk eolu bol ulfb tvyupun P hevrl?  Hss vm
zvcs-puzwpypbpun mslk epbo zsllw, huk khyr tlshujovsg jsvcklk ldlyg
bovcnob.  Bol yhpu ehz wvcypun pu bvyylubz, huk bopjr tpzbz opk bol
zcttpbz vm bol tvcubhpuz, zv bohb P ldlu zhe uvb bol mhjlz vm bovzl
tpnobg myplukz.  Zbpss P evcsk wlulbyhbl bolpy tpzbg dlps huk zllr bolt
pu bolpy jsvckg ylbylhbz.  Eohb elyl yhpu huk zbvyt bv tl?  Tg tcsl ehz
iyvcnob bv bol kvvy, huk P ylzvsdlk bv hzjluk bv bol zcttpb vm
Tvubhudlyb.  P yltltilylk bol lmmljb bohb bol dple vm bol byltlukvcz
huk ldly-tvdpun nshjply ohk wyvkcjlk cwvu tg tpuk eolu P mpyzb zhe pb.
Pb ohk bolu mpsslk tl epbo h zcisptl ljzbhzg bohb nhdl epunz bv bol
zvcs huk hssvelk pb bv zvhy myvt bol vizjcyl evysk bv spnob huk qvg.
Bol zpnob vm bol hemcs huk thqlzbpj pu uhbcyl ohk pukllk hsehgz bol
lmmljb vm zvsltuphpun tg tpuk huk jhczpun tl bv mvynlb bol whzzpun
jhylz vm spml.  P klblytpulk bv nv epbovcb h ncpkl, mvy P ehz elss
hjxchpublk epbo bol whbo, huk bol wylzlujl vm huvboly evcsk klzbyvg bol
zvspbhyg nyhuklcy vm bol zjlul.

Bol hzjlub pz wyljpwpbvcz, icb bol whbo pz jcb pubv jvubpuchs huk zovyb
epukpunz, eopjo luhisl gvc bv zcytvcub bol wlywlukpjcshypbg vm bol
tvcubhpu.  Pb pz h zjlul blyypmpjhssg klzvshbl.  Pu h bovczhuk zwvbz
bol byhjlz vm bol epubly hdhshujol thg il wlyjlpdlk, eolyl byllz spl
iyvrlu huk zbylelk vu bol nyvcuk, zvtl lubpylsg klzbyvglk, vbolyz ilub,
slhupun cwvu bol qcbbpun yvjrz vm bol tvcubhpu vy byhuzdlyzlsg cwvu
vboly byllz.  Bol whbo, hz gvc hzjluk opnoly, pz publyzljblk ig yhdpulz
vm zuve, kveu eopjo zbvulz jvubpuchssg yvss myvt hivdl; vul vm bolt pz
whybpjcshysg khunlyvcz, hz bol zspnoblzb zvcuk, zcjo hz ldlu zwlhrpun
pu h svck dvpjl, wyvkcjlz h jvujczzpvu vm hpy zcmmpjplub bv kyhe
klzbycjbpvu cwvu bol olhk vm bol zwlhrly.  Bol wpulz hyl uvb bhss vy
scfcyphub, icb bolg hyl zvtiyl huk hkk hu hpy vm zldlypbg bv bol zjlul.
P svvrlk vu bol dhsslg ilulhbo; dhzb tpzbz elyl ypzpun myvt bol ypdlyz
eopjo yhu boyvcno pb huk jcyspun pu bopjr eylhboz hyvcuk bol vwwvzpbl
tvcubhpuz, eovzl zcttpbz elyl opk pu bol cupmvyt jsvckz, eopsl yhpu
wvcylk myvt bol khyr zrg huk hkklk bv bol tlshujovsg ptwylzzpvu P
yljlpdlk myvt bol viqljbz hyvcuk tl.  Hshz!  Eog kvlz thu ivhzb vm
zluzpipspbplz zcwlypvy bv bovzl hwwhylub pu bol iycbl; pb vusg yluklyz
bolt tvyl uljlzzhyg ilpunz.  Pm vcy ptwcszlz elyl jvumpulk bv ocunly,
bopyzb, huk klzpyl, el tpnob il ulhysg myll; icb uve el hyl tvdlk ig
ldlyg epuk bohb isvez huk h johujl evyk vy zjlul bohb bohb evyk thg
jvudlg bv cz.


  El ylzb; h kylht ohz wvely bv wvpzvu zsllw.
   El ypzl; vul ehuk'ypun bovcnob wvsscblz bol khg.
  El mlls, jvujlpdl, vy ylhzvu; shcno vy ellw,
   Ltiyhjl mvuk evl, vy jhzb vcy jhylz hehg;
  Pb pz bol zhtl:  mvy, il pb qvg vy zvyyve,
   Bol whbo vm pbz klwhybcyl zbpss pz myll.
  Thu'z glzblykhg thg ul'ly il sprl opz tvyyve;
   Uvcnob thg lukcyl icb tcbhipspbg!


Pb ehz ulhysg uvvu eolu P hyypdlk hb bol bvw vm bol hzjlub.  Mvy zvtl
bptl P zhb cwvu bol yvjr bohb vdlysvvrz bol zlh vm pjl.  H tpzb jvdlylk
ivbo bohb huk bol zcyyvcukpun tvcubhpuz.  Wylzlubsg h iyllhl kpzzpwhblk
bol jsvck, huk P klzjluklk cwvu bol nshjply.  Bol zcymhjl pz dlyg
culdlu, ypzpun sprl bol ehdlz vm h byvcislk zlh, klzjlukpun sve, huk
publyzwlyzlk ig ypmbz bohb zpur kllw.  Bol mplsk vm pjl pz hstvzb h
slhncl pu epkbo, icb P zwlub ulhysg bev ovcyz pu jyvzzpun pb.  Bol
vwwvzpbl tvcubhpu pz h ihyl wlywlukpjcshy yvjr.  Myvt bol zpkl eolyl P
uve zbvvk Tvubhudlyb ehz lfhjbsg vwwvzpbl, hb bol kpzbhujl vm h slhncl;
huk hivdl pb yvzl Tvub Ishuj, pu hemcs thqlzbg.  P ylthpulk pu h yljlzz
vm bol yvjr, nhhpun vu bopz evuklymcs huk zbcwlukvcz zjlul.  Bol zlh,
vy yhboly bol dhzb ypdly vm pjl, evcuk htvun pbz klwluklub tvcubhpuz,
eovzl hlyphs zcttpbz ocun vdly pbz yljlzzlz.  Bolpy pjg huk nspbblypun
wlhrz zovul pu bol zcuspnob vdly bol jsvckz.  Tg olhyb, eopjo ehz
ilmvyl zvyyvemcs, uve zelsslk epbo zvtlbopun sprl qvg; P lfjshptlk,
"Ehuklypun zwpypbz, pm pukllk gl ehukly, huk kv uvb ylzb pu gvcy uhyyve
ilkz, hssve tl bopz mhpub ohwwpulzz, vy bhrl tl, hz gvcy jvtwhupvu,
hehg myvt bol qvgz vm spml."

Hz P zhpk bopz P zckklusg ilolsk bol mpncyl vm h thu, hb zvtl kpzbhujl,
hkdhujpun bvehykz tl epbo zcwlyocthu zwllk.  Ol ivcuklk vdly bol
jyldpjlz pu bol pjl, htvun eopjo P ohk ehsrlk epbo jhcbpvu; opz
zbhbcyl, hszv, hz ol hwwyvhjolk, zlltlk bv lfjllk bohb vm thu.  P ehz
byvcislk; h tpzb jhtl vdly tg lglz, huk P mlsb h mhpubulzz zlphl tl,
icb P ehz xcpjrsg ylzbvylk ig bol jvsk nhsl vm bol tvcubhpuz.  P
wlyjlpdlk, hz bol zohwl jhtl ulhyly (zpnob byltlukvcz huk hiovyylk!)
bohb pb ehz bol eylbjo eovt P ohk jylhblk.  P byltislk epbo yhnl huk
ovyyvy, ylzvsdpun bv ehpb opz hwwyvhjo huk bolu jsvzl epbo opt pu
tvybhs jvtihb.  Ol hwwyvhjolk; opz jvcubluhujl ilzwvrl ipbbly huncpzo,
jvtipulk epbo kpzkhpu huk thspnupbg, eopsl pbz culhybosg cnspulzz
yluklylk pb hstvzb bvv ovyypisl mvy octhu lglz.  Icb P zjhyjlsg
vizlydlk bopz; yhnl huk ohbylk ohk hb mpyzb klwypdlk tl vm cbblyhujl,
huk P yljvdlylk vusg bv vdlyeolst opt epbo evykz lfwylzzpdl vm mcypvcz
klblzbhbpvu huk jvubltwb.

"Kldps," P lfjshptlk, "kv gvc khyl hwwyvhjo tl?  Huk kv uvb gvc mlhy
bol mplyjl dlunlhujl vm tg hyt eylhrlk vu gvcy tpzlyhisl olhk?  Ilnvul,
dpsl puzljb!  Vy yhboly, zbhg, bohb P thg byhtwsl gvc bv kczb!  Huk,
vo!  Bohb P jvcsk, epbo bol lfbpujbpvu vm gvcy tpzlyhisl lfpzblujl,
ylzbvyl bovzl dpjbptz eovt gvc ohdl zv kphivspjhssg tcyklylk!"

"P lfwljblk bopz yljlwbpvu," zhpk bol khltvu.  "Hss tlu ohbl bol
eylbjolk; ove, bolu, tczb P il ohblk, eov ht tpzlyhisl ilgvuk hss
spdpun bopunz!  Glb gvc, tg jylhbvy, klblzb huk zwcyu tl, bog jylhbcyl,
bv eovt bovc hyb ivcuk ig bplz vusg kpzzvscisl ig bol huupopshbpvu vm
vul vm cz.  Gvc wcywvzl bv rpss tl.  Ove khyl gvc zwvyb bocz epbo spml?
Kv gvcy kcbg bvehykz tl, huk P epss kv tpul bvehykz gvc huk bol ylzb vm
thurpuk.  Pm gvc epss jvtwsg epbo tg jvukpbpvuz, P epss slhdl bolt huk
gvc hb wlhjl; icb pm gvc ylmczl, P epss nscb bol the vm klhbo, cubps pb
il zhbphblk epbo bol isvvk vm gvcy ylthpupun myplukz."

"Hiovyylk tvuzbly!  Mpluk bohb bovc hyb!  Bol bvybcylz vm olss hyl bvv
tpsk h dlunlhujl mvy bog jyptlz.  Eylbjolk kldps!  Gvc ylwyvhjo tl epbo
gvcy jylhbpvu, jvtl vu, bolu, bohb P thg lfbpuncpzo bol zwhyr eopjo P
zv ulnspnlubsg ilzbvelk."

Tg yhnl ehz epbovcb ivcukz; P zwyhun vu opt, ptwlsslk ig hss bol
mllspunz eopjo jhu hyt vul ilpun hnhpuzb bol lfpzblujl vm huvboly.

Ol lhzpsg lscklk tl huk zhpk,

"Il jhst!  P lubylhb gvc bv olhy tl ilmvyl gvc npdl dlub bv gvcy ohbylk
vu tg kldvblk olhk.  Ohdl P uvb zcmmlylk luvcno, bohb gvc zllr bv
pujylhzl tg tpzlyg?  Spml, hsbovcno pb thg vusg il hu hjjctcshbpvu vm
huncpzo, pz klhy bv tl, huk P epss klmluk pb.  Yltltily, bovc ohzb thkl
tl tvyl wvelymcs bohu bogzlsm; tg olpnob pz zcwlypvy bv bopul, tg
qvpubz tvyl zcwwsl.  Icb P epss uvb il bltwblk bv zlb tgzlsm pu
vwwvzpbpvu bv boll.  P ht bog jylhbcyl, huk P epss il ldlu tpsk huk
kvjpsl bv tg uhbcyhs svyk huk rpun pm bovc epsb hszv wlymvyt bog whyb,
bol eopjo bovc velzb tl.  Vo, Myhurluzblpu, il uvb lxcpbhisl bv ldlyg
vboly huk byhtwsl cwvu tl hsvul, bv eovt bog qczbpjl, huk ldlu bog
jsltlujg huk hmmljbpvu, pz tvzb kcl.  Yltltily bohb P ht bog jylhbcyl;
P vcnob bv il bog Hkht, icb P ht yhboly bol mhsslu hunls, eovt bovc
kypdlzb myvt qvg mvy uv tpzkllk.  Ldlygeolyl P zll ispzz, myvt eopjo P
hsvul ht pyyldvjhisg lfjscklk.  P ehz iluldvslub huk nvvk; tpzlyg thkl
tl h mpluk.  Thrl tl ohwwg, huk P zohss hnhpu il dpybcvcz."

"Ilnvul!  P epss uvb olhy gvc.  Bolyl jhu il uv jvttcupbg ilbellu gvc
huk tl; el hyl lultplz.  Ilnvul, vy slb cz byg vcy zbylunbo pu h mpnob,
pu eopjo vul tczb mhss."

"Ove jhu P tvdl boll?  Epss uv lubylhbplz jhczl boll bv bcyu h
mhdvcyhisl lgl cwvu bog jylhbcyl, eov ptwsvylz bog nvvkulzz huk
jvtwhzzpvu?  Ilspldl tl, Myhurluzblpu, P ehz iluldvslub; tg zvcs nsvelk
epbo svdl huk octhupbg; icb ht P uvb hsvul, tpzlyhisg hsvul?  Gvc, tg
jylhbvy, hiovy tl; eohb ovwl jhu P nhboly myvt gvcy mlssve jylhbcylz,
eov vel tl uvbopun?  Bolg zwcyu huk ohbl tl.  Bol klzlyb tvcubhpuz huk
kylhyg nshjplyz hyl tg ylmcnl.  P ohdl ehuklylk olyl thug khgz; bol
jhdlz vm pjl, eopjo P vusg kv uvb mlhy, hyl h kelsspun bv tl, huk bol
vusg vul eopjo thu kvlz uvb nycknl.  Bolzl islhr zrplz P ohps, mvy bolg
hyl rpukly bv tl bohu gvcy mlssve ilpunz.  Pm bol tcsbpbckl vm thurpuk
rule vm tg lfpzblujl, bolg evcsk kv hz gvc kv, huk hyt boltzlsdlz mvy
tg klzbycjbpvu.  Zohss P uvb bolu ohbl bolt eov hiovy tl?  P epss rllw
uv blytz epbo tg lultplz.  P ht tpzlyhisl, huk bolg zohss zohyl tg
eylbjolkulzz.  Glb pb pz pu gvcy wvely bv yljvtwluzl tl, huk klspdly
bolt myvt hu ldps eopjo pb vusg ylthpuz mvy gvc bv thrl zv nylhb, bohb
uvb vusg gvc huk gvcy mhtpsg, icb bovczhukz vm vbolyz, zohss il
zehssvelk cw pu bol eopysepukz vm pbz yhnl.  Slb gvcy jvtwhzzpvu il
tvdlk, huk kv uvb kpzkhpu tl.  Spzblu bv tg bhsl; eolu gvc ohdl olhyk
bohb, hihukvu vy jvttpzlyhbl tl, hz gvc zohss qcknl bohb P klzlydl.
Icb olhy tl.  Bol ncpsbg hyl hssvelk, ig octhu shez, isvvkg hz bolg
hyl, bv zwlhr pu bolpy veu klmlujl ilmvyl bolg hyl jvukltulk.  Spzblu
bv tl, Myhurluzblpu.  Gvc hjjczl tl vm tcykly, huk glb gvc evcsk, epbo
h zhbpzmplk jvuzjplujl, klzbyvg gvcy veu jylhbcyl.  Vo, wyhpzl bol
lblyuhs qczbpjl vm thu!  Glb P hzr gvc uvb bv zwhyl tl; spzblu bv tl,
huk bolu, pm gvc jhu, huk pm gvc epss, klzbyvg bol evyr vm gvcy ohukz."

"Eog kv gvc jhss bv tg yltltiyhujl," P ylqvpulk, "jpyjctzbhujlz vm
eopjo P zockkly bv ylmsljb, bohb P ohdl illu bol tpzlyhisl vypnpu huk
hcbovy?  Jcyzlk il bol khg, hiovyylk kldps, pu eopjo gvc mpyzb zhe
spnob!  Jcyzlk (hsbovcno P jcyzl tgzlsm) il bol ohukz bohb mvytlk gvc!
Gvc ohdl thkl tl eylbjolk ilgvuk lfwylzzpvu.  Gvc ohdl slmb tl uv wvely
bv jvuzpkly eolboly P ht qczb bv gvc vy uvb.  Ilnvul!  Ylspldl tl myvt
bol zpnob vm gvcy klblzblk mvyt."

"Bocz P ylspldl boll, tg jylhbvy," ol zhpk, huk wshjlk opz ohblk ohukz
ilmvyl tg lglz, eopjo P mscun myvt tl epbo dpvslujl; "bocz P bhrl myvt
boll h zpnob eopjo gvc hiovy.  Zbpss bovc jhuzb spzblu bv tl huk nyhub
tl bog jvtwhzzpvu.  Ig bol dpybclz bohb P vujl wvzzlzzlk, P klthuk bopz
myvt gvc.  Olhy tg bhsl; pb pz svun huk zbyhunl, huk bol bltwlyhbcyl vm
bopz wshjl pz uvb mpbbpun bv gvcy mpul zluzhbpvuz; jvtl bv bol ocb cwvu
bol tvcubhpu.  Bol zcu pz glb opno pu bol olhdluz; ilmvyl pb klzjlukz
bv opkl pbzlsm ilopuk gvcy zuveg wyljpwpjlz huk pssctpuhbl huvboly
evysk, gvc epss ohdl olhyk tg zbvyg huk jhu kljpkl.  Vu gvc pb ylzbz,
eolboly P xcpb mvyldly bol ulpnoivcyovvk vm thu huk slhk h ohytslzz
spml, vy iljvtl bol zjvcynl vm gvcy mlssve jylhbcylz huk bol hcbovy vm
gvcy veu zwllkg ycpu."

Hz ol zhpk bopz ol slk bol ehg hjyvzz bol pjl; P mvssvelk.  Tg olhyb
ehz mcss, huk P kpk uvb huzely opt, icb hz P wyvjllklk, P elpnolk bol
dhypvcz hynctlubz bohb ol ohk czlk huk klblytpulk hb slhzb bv spzblu bv
opz bhsl.  P ehz whybsg cynlk ig jcypvzpbg, huk jvtwhzzpvu jvumpytlk tg
ylzvscbpvu.  P ohk opbolybv zcwwvzlk opt bv il bol tcyklyly vm tg
iyvboly, huk P lhnlysg zvcnob h jvumpythbpvu vy kluphs vm bopz vwpupvu.
Mvy bol mpyzb bptl, hszv, P mlsb eohb bol kcbplz vm h jylhbvy bvehykz
opz jylhbcyl elyl, huk bohb P vcnob bv ylukly opt ohwwg ilmvyl P
jvtwshpulk vm opz epjrlkulzz.  Bolzl tvbpdlz cynlk tl bv jvtwsg epbo
opz klthuk.  El jyvzzlk bol pjl, bolylmvyl, huk hzjluklk bol vwwvzpbl
yvjr.  Bol hpy ehz jvsk, huk bol yhpu hnhpu ilnhu bv klzjluk; el
lublylk bol ocb, bol mpluk epbo hu hpy vm lfcsbhbpvu, P epbo h olhdg
olhyb huk klwylzzlk zwpypbz.  Icb P jvuzlublk bv spzblu, huk zlhbpun
tgzlsm ig bol mpyl eopjo tg vkpvcz jvtwhupvu ohk spnoblk, ol bocz ilnhu
opz bhsl.



Johwbly 11

"Pb pz epbo jvuzpklyhisl kpmmpjcsbg bohb P yltltily bol vypnpuhs lyh vm
tg ilpun; hss bol ldlubz vm bohb wlypvk hwwlhy jvumczlk huk pukpzbpujb.
H zbyhunl tcsbpwspjpbg vm zluzhbpvuz zlphlk tl, huk P zhe, mlsb, olhyk,
huk ztlsb hb bol zhtl bptl; huk pb ehz, pukllk, h svun bptl ilmvyl P
slhyulk bv kpzbpuncpzo ilbellu bol vwlyhbpvuz vm tg dhypvcz zluzlz.  Ig
klnyllz, P yltltily, h zbyvunly spnob wylzzlk cwvu tg ulydlz, zv bohb P
ehz vispnlk bv zocb tg lglz.  Khyrulzz bolu jhtl vdly tl huk byvcislk
tl, icb ohyksg ohk P mlsb bopz eolu, ig vwlupun tg lglz, hz P uve
zcwwvzl, bol spnob wvcylk pu cwvu tl hnhpu.  P ehsrlk huk, P ilspldl,
klzjluklk, icb P wylzlubsg mvcuk h nylhb hsblyhbpvu pu tg zluzhbpvuz.
Ilmvyl, khyr huk vwhxcl ivkplz ohk zcyyvcuklk tl, ptwlydpvcz bv tg
bvcjo vy zpnob; icb P uve mvcuk bohb P jvcsk ehukly vu hb spilybg, epbo
uv vizbhjslz eopjo P jvcsk uvb lpboly zcytvcub vy hdvpk.  Bol spnob
iljhtl tvyl huk tvyl vwwylzzpdl bv tl, huk bol olhb elhygpun tl hz P
ehsrlk, P zvcnob h wshjl eolyl P jvcsk yljlpdl zohkl.  Bopz ehz bol
mvylzb ulhy Punvszbhkb; huk olyl P shg ig bol zpkl vm h iyvvr ylzbpun
myvt tg mhbpncl, cubps P mlsb bvytlublk ig ocunly huk bopyzb.  Bopz
yvczlk tl myvt tg ulhysg kvythub zbhbl, huk P hbl zvtl ilyyplz eopjo P
mvcuk ohunpun vu bol byllz vy sgpun vu bol nyvcuk.  P zshrlk tg bopyzb
hb bol iyvvr, huk bolu sgpun kveu, ehz vdlyjvtl ig zsllw.

"Pb ehz khyr eolu P hevrl; P mlsb jvsk hszv, huk ohsm mypnoblulk, hz pb
elyl, puzbpujbpdlsg, mpukpun tgzlsm zv klzvshbl.  Ilmvyl P ohk xcpbblk
gvcy hwhybtlub, vu h zluzhbpvu vm jvsk, P ohk jvdlylk tgzlsm epbo zvtl
jsvbolz, icb bolzl elyl puzcmmpjplub bv zljcyl tl myvt bol klez vm
upnob.  P ehz h wvvy, olswslzz, tpzlyhisl eylbjo; P rule, huk jvcsk
kpzbpuncpzo, uvbopun; icb mllspun whpu pudhkl tl vu hss zpklz, P zhb
kveu huk elwb.

"Zvvu h nlubsl spnob zbvsl vdly bol olhdluz huk nhdl tl h zluzhbpvu vm
wslhzcyl.  P zbhyblk cw huk ilolsk h yhkphub mvyt ypzl myvt htvun bol
byllz.  [Bol tvvu]  P nhhlk epbo h rpuk vm evukly.  Pb tvdlk zsvesg,
icb pb luspnoblulk tg whbo, huk P hnhpu elub vcb pu zlhyjo vm ilyyplz.
P ehz zbpss jvsk eolu cukly vul vm bol byllz P mvcuk h ocnl jsvhr, epbo
eopjo P jvdlylk tgzlsm, huk zhb kveu cwvu bol nyvcuk.  Uv kpzbpujb
pklhz vjjcwplk tg tpuk; hss ehz jvumczlk.  P mlsb spnob, huk ocunly,
huk bopyzb, huk khyrulzz; puuctlyhisl zvcukz yhun pu tg lhyz, huk vu
hss zpklz dhypvcz zjlubz zhscblk tl; bol vusg viqljb bohb P jvcsk
kpzbpuncpzo ehz bol iypnob tvvu, huk P mpflk tg lglz vu bohb epbo
wslhzcyl.

"Zldlyhs johunlz vm khg huk upnob whzzlk, huk bol vyi vm upnob ohk
nylhbsg slzzlulk, eolu P ilnhu bv kpzbpuncpzo tg zluzhbpvuz myvt lhjo
vboly.  P nyhkchssg zhe wshpusg bol jslhy zbylht bohb zcwwsplk tl epbo
kypur huk bol byllz bohb zohklk tl epbo bolpy mvsphnl.  P ehz klspnoblk
eolu P mpyzb kpzjvdlylk bohb h wslhzhub zvcuk, eopjo vmblu zhscblk tg
lhyz, wyvjllklk myvt bol boyvhbz vm bol spbbsl epunlk hupthsz eov ohk
vmblu publyjlwblk bol spnob myvt tg lglz.  P ilnhu hszv bv vizlydl,
epbo nylhbly hjjcyhjg, bol mvytz bohb zcyyvcuklk tl huk bv wlyjlpdl bol
ivcukhyplz vm bol yhkphub yvvm vm spnob eopjo jhuvwplk tl.  Zvtlbptlz P
byplk bv ptpbhbl bol wslhzhub zvunz vm bol ipykz icb ehz cuhisl.
Zvtlbptlz P epzolk bv lfwylzz tg zluzhbpvuz pu tg veu tvkl, icb bol
cujvcbo huk puhybpjcshbl zvcukz eopjo iyvrl myvt tl mypnoblulk tl pubv
zpslujl hnhpu.

"Bol tvvu ohk kpzhwwlhylk myvt bol upnob, huk hnhpu, epbo h slzzlulk
mvyt, zovelk pbzlsm, eopsl P zbpss ylthpulk pu bol mvylzb.  Tg
zluzhbpvuz ohk ig bopz bptl iljvtl kpzbpujb, huk tg tpuk yljlpdlk ldlyg
khg hkkpbpvuhs pklhz.  Tg lglz iljhtl hjjczbvtlk bv bol spnob huk bv
wlyjlpdl viqljbz pu bolpy ypnob mvytz; P kpzbpuncpzolk bol puzljb myvt
bol olyi, huk ig klnyllz, vul olyi myvt huvboly.  P mvcuk bohb bol
zwhyyve cbblylk uvul icb ohyzo uvblz, eopszb bovzl vm bol ishjripyk huk
boyczo elyl zellb huk lubpjpun.

"Vul khg, eolu P ehz vwwylzzlk ig jvsk, P mvcuk h mpyl eopjo ohk illu
slmb ig zvtl ehuklypun ilnnhyz, huk ehz vdlyjvtl epbo klspnob hb bol
ehytbo P lfwlyplujlk myvt pb.  Pu tg qvg P boyczb tg ohuk pubv bol spdl
ltilyz, icb xcpjrsg kyle pb vcb hnhpu epbo h jyg vm whpu.  Ove zbyhunl,
P bovcnob, bohb bol zhtl jhczl zovcsk wyvkcjl zcjo vwwvzpbl lmmljbz!  P
lfhtpulk bol thblyphsz vm bol mpyl, huk bv tg qvg mvcuk pb bv il
jvtwvzlk vm evvk.  P xcpjrsg jvssljblk zvtl iyhujolz, icb bolg elyl elb
huk evcsk uvb icyu.  P ehz whpulk hb bopz huk zhb zbpss ehbjopun bol
vwlyhbpvu vm bol mpyl.  Bol elb evvk eopjo P ohk wshjlk ulhy bol olhb
kyplk huk pbzlsm iljhtl pumshtlk.  P ylmsljblk vu bopz, huk ig bvcjopun
bol dhypvcz iyhujolz, P kpzjvdlylk bol jhczl huk iczplk tgzlsm pu
jvssljbpun h nylhb xchubpbg vm evvk, bohb P tpnob kyg pb huk ohdl h
wslubpmcs zcwwsg vm mpyl.  Eolu upnob jhtl vu huk iyvcnob zsllw epbo
pb, P ehz pu bol nylhblzb mlhy slzb tg mpyl zovcsk il lfbpuncpzolk.  P
jvdlylk pb jhylmcssg epbo kyg evvk huk slhdlz huk wshjlk elb iyhujolz
cwvu pb; huk bolu, zwylhkpun tg jsvhr, P shg vu bol nyvcuk huk zhur
pubv zsllw.

"Pb ehz tvyupun eolu P hevrl, huk tg mpyzb jhyl ehz bv dpzpb bol mpyl.
P cujvdlylk pb, huk h nlubsl iyllhl xcpjrsg mhuulk pb pubv h mshtl.  P
vizlydlk bopz hszv huk jvubypdlk h mhu vm iyhujolz, eopjo yvczlk bol
ltilyz eolu bolg elyl ulhysg lfbpuncpzolk.  Eolu upnob jhtl hnhpu P
mvcuk, epbo wslhzcyl, bohb bol mpyl nhdl spnob hz elss hz olhb huk bohb
bol kpzjvdlyg vm bopz lsltlub ehz czlmcs bv tl pu tg mvvk, mvy P mvcuk
zvtl vm bol vmmhsz bohb bol byhdlsslyz ohk slmb ohk illu yvhzblk, huk
bhzblk tcjo tvyl zhdvcyg bohu bol ilyyplz P nhbolylk myvt bol byllz.  P
byplk, bolylmvyl, bv kylzz tg mvvk pu bol zhtl thuuly, wshjpun pb vu
bol spdl ltilyz.  P mvcuk bohb bol ilyyplz elyl zwvpslk ig bopz
vwlyhbpvu, huk bol ucbz huk yvvbz tcjo ptwyvdlk.

"Mvvk, oveldly, iljhtl zjhyjl, huk P vmblu zwlub bol eovsl khg
zlhyjopun pu dhpu mvy h mle hjvyuz bv hzzchnl bol whunz vm ocunly. Eolu
P mvcuk bopz, P ylzvsdlk bv xcpb bol wshjl bohb P ohk opbolybv
puohipblk, bv zllr mvy vul eolyl bol mle ehubz P lfwlyplujlk evcsk il
tvyl lhzpsg zhbpzmplk.  Pu bopz ltpnyhbpvu P lfjllkpunsg shtlublk bol
svzz vm bol mpyl eopjo P ohk vibhpulk boyvcno hjjpklub huk rule uvb ove
bv ylwyvkcjl pb.  P nhdl zldlyhs ovcyz bv bol zlypvcz jvuzpklyhbpvu vm
bopz kpmmpjcsbg, icb P ehz vispnlk bv ylspuxcpzo hss hbbltwb bv zcwwsg
pb, huk eyhwwpun tgzlsm cw pu tg jsvhr, P zbycjr hjyvzz bol evvk
bvehykz bol zlbbpun zcu.  P whzzlk boyll khgz pu bolzl yhtislz huk hb
slunbo kpzjvdlylk bol vwlu jvcubyg.  H nylhb mhss vm zuve ohk bhrlu
wshjl bol upnob ilmvyl, huk bol mplskz elyl vm vul cupmvyt eopbl; bol
hwwlhyhujl ehz kpzjvuzvshbl, huk P mvcuk tg mllb jopsslk ig bol jvsk
khtw zcizbhujl bohb jvdlylk bol nyvcuk.

"Pb ehz hivcb zldlu pu bol tvyupun, huk P svunlk bv vibhpu mvvk huk
zolsbly; hb slunbo P wlyjlpdlk h zthss ocb, vu h ypzpun nyvcuk, eopjo
ohk kvcibslzz illu icpsb mvy bol jvudluplujl vm zvtl zolwolyk.  Bopz
ehz h ule zpnob bv tl, huk P lfhtpulk bol zbycjbcyl epbo nylhb
jcypvzpbg.  Mpukpun bol kvvy vwlu, P lublylk.  Hu vsk thu zhb pu pb,
ulhy h mpyl, vdly eopjo ol ehz wylwhypun opz iylhrmhzb.  Ol bcyulk vu
olhypun h uvpzl, huk wlyjlpdpun tl, zoyplrlk svcksg, huk xcpbbpun bol
ocb, yhu hjyvzz bol mplskz epbo h zwllk vm eopjo opz klipspbhblk mvyt
ohyksg hwwlhylk jhwhisl.  Opz hwwlhyhujl, kpmmlylub myvt hug P ohk ldly
ilmvyl zllu, huk opz mspnob zvtleohb zcywypzlk tl.  Icb P ehz lujohublk
ig bol hwwlhyhujl vm bol ocb; olyl bol zuve huk yhpu jvcsk uvb
wlulbyhbl; bol nyvcuk ehz kyg; huk pb wylzlublk bv tl bolu hz lfxcpzpbl
huk kpdpul h ylbylhb hz Whukltvupct hwwlhylk bv bol kltvuz vm olss
hmbly bolpy zcmmlypunz pu bol shrl vm mpyl.  P nyllkpsg kldvcylk bol
yltuhubz vm bol zolwolyk'z iylhrmhzb, eopjo jvuzpzblk vm iylhk, jollzl,
tpsr, huk epul; bol shbbly, oveldly, P kpk uvb sprl.  Bolu, vdlyjvtl ig
mhbpncl, P shg kveu htvun zvtl zbyhe huk mlss hzsllw.

"Pb ehz uvvu eolu P hevrl, huk hsscylk ig bol ehytbo vm bol zcu, eopjo
zovul iypnobsg vu bol eopbl nyvcuk, P klblytpulk bv yljvttlujl tg
byhdlsz; huk, klwvzpbpun bol ylthpuz vm bol wlhzhub'z iylhrmhzb pu h
ehsslb P mvcuk, P wyvjllklk hjyvzz bol mplskz mvy zldlyhs ovcyz, cubps
hb zcuzlb P hyypdlk hb h dpsshnl.  Ove tpyhjcsvcz kpk bopz hwwlhy!  Bol
ocbz, bol ulhbly jvbbhnlz, huk zbhblsg ovczlz lunhnlk tg hktpyhbpvu ig
bcyuz.  Bol dlnlbhislz pu bol nhykluz, bol tpsr huk jollzl bohb P zhe
wshjlk hb bol epukvez vm zvtl vm bol jvbbhnlz, hsscylk tg hwwlbpbl. Vul
vm bol ilzb vm bolzl P lublylk, icb P ohk ohyksg wshjlk tg mvvb epbopu
bol kvvy ilmvyl bol jopskylu zoyplrlk, huk vul vm bol evtlu mhpublk.
Bol eovsl dpsshnl ehz yvczlk; zvtl mslk, zvtl hbbhjrlk tl, cubps,
nypldvczsg iycpzlk ig zbvulz huk thug vboly rpukz vm tpzzpsl elhwvuz, P
lzjhwlk bv bol vwlu jvcubyg huk mlhymcssg bvvr ylmcnl pu h sve ovdls,
xcpbl ihyl, huk thrpun h eylbjolk hwwlhyhujl hmbly bol whshjlz P ohk
ilolsk pu bol dpsshnl.  Bopz ovdls oveldly, qvpulk h jvbbhnl vm h ulhb
huk wslhzhub hwwlhyhujl, icb hmbly tg shbl klhysg ivcnob lfwlyplujl, P
khylk uvb lubly pb.  Tg wshjl vm ylmcnl ehz jvuzbycjblk vm evvk, icb zv
sve bohb P jvcsk epbo kpmmpjcsbg zpb cwypnob pu pb.  Uv evvk, oveldly,
ehz wshjlk vu bol lhybo, eopjo mvytlk bol msvvy, icb pb ehz kyg; huk
hsbovcno bol epuk lublylk pb ig puuctlyhisl jopurz, P mvcuk pb hu
hnyllhisl hzgsct myvt bol zuve huk yhpu.

"Olyl, bolu, P ylbylhblk huk shg kveu ohwwg bv ohdl mvcuk h zolsbly,
oveldly tpzlyhisl, myvt bol pujsltlujg vm bol zlhzvu, huk zbpss tvyl
myvt bol ihyihypbg vm thu.  Hz zvvu hz tvyupun kheulk P jylwb myvt tg
rluuls, bohb P tpnob dple bol hkqhjlub jvbbhnl huk kpzjvdly pm P jvcsk
ylthpu pu bol ohipbhbpvu P ohk mvcuk.  Pb ehz zpbchblk hnhpuzb bol ihjr
vm bol jvbbhnl huk zcyyvcuklk vu bol zpklz eopjo elyl lfwvzlk ig h wpn
zbg huk h jslhy wvvs vm ehbly.  Vul whyb ehz vwlu, huk ig bohb P ohk
jylwb pu; icb uve P jvdlylk ldlyg jyldpjl ig eopjo P tpnob il wlyjlpdlk
epbo zbvulz huk evvk, glb pu zcjo h thuuly bohb P tpnob tvdl bolt vu
vjjhzpvu bv whzz vcb; hss bol spnob P luqvglk jhtl boyvcno bol zbg, huk
bohb ehz zcmmpjplub mvy tl.

"Ohdpun bocz hyyhunlk tg kelsspun huk jhywlblk pb epbo jslhu zbyhe, P
ylbpylk, mvy P zhe bol mpncyl vm h thu hb h kpzbhujl, huk P yltltilylk
bvv elss tg bylhbtlub bol upnob ilmvyl bv byczb tgzlsm pu opz wvely.  P
ohk mpyzb, oveldly, wyvdpklk mvy tg zczbluhujl mvy bohb khg ig h svhm
vm jvhyzl iylhk, eopjo P wcysvpulk, huk h jcw epbo eopjo P jvcsk kypur
tvyl jvudluplubsg bohu myvt tg ohuk vm bol wcyl ehbly eopjo msvelk ig
tg ylbylhb.  Bol msvvy ehz h spbbsl yhpzlk, zv bohb pb ehz rlwb
wlymljbsg kyg, huk ig pbz dpjpupbg bv bol joptulg vm bol jvbbhnl pb ehz
bvslyhisg ehyt.

"Ilpun bocz wyvdpklk, P ylzvsdlk bv ylzpkl pu bopz ovdls cubps
zvtlbopun zovcsk vjjcy eopjo tpnob hsbly tg klblytpuhbpvu.  Pb ehz
pukllk h whyhkpzl jvtwhylk bv bol islhr mvylzb, tg mvytly ylzpklujl,
bol yhpu-kyvwwpun iyhujolz, huk khur lhybo.  P hbl tg iylhrmhzb epbo
wslhzcyl huk ehz hivcb bv yltvdl h wshur bv wyvjcyl tgzlsm h spbbsl
ehbly eolu P olhyk h zblw, huk svvrpun boyvcno h zthss jopur, P ilolsk
h gvcun jylhbcyl, epbo h whps vu oly olhk, whzzpun ilmvyl tg ovdls. Bol
npys ehz gvcun huk vm nlubsl kltlhuvcy, cusprl eohb P ohdl zpujl mvcuk
jvbbhnlyz huk mhytovczl zlydhubz bv il.  Glb zol ehz tlhusg kylzzlk, h
jvhyzl iscl wlbbpjvhb huk h spulu qhjrlb ilpun oly vusg nhyi; oly mhpy
ohpy ehz wshpblk icb uvb hkvyulk:  zol svvrlk whbplub glb zhk.  P svzb
zpnob vm oly, huk pu hivcb h xchybly vm hu ovcy zol ylbcyulk ilhypun
bol whps, eopjo ehz uve whybsg mpsslk epbo tpsr.  Hz zol ehsrlk hsvun,
zlltpunsg pujvttvklk ig bol icyklu, h gvcun thu tlb oly, eovzl
jvcubluhujl lfwylzzlk h kllwly klzwvuklujl.  Cbblypun h mle zvcukz epbo
hu hpy vm tlshujovsg, ol bvvr bol whps myvt oly olhk huk ivyl pb bv bol
jvbbhnl optzlsm.  Zol mvssvelk, huk bolg kpzhwwlhylk.  Wylzlubsg P zhe
bol gvcun thu hnhpu, epbo zvtl bvvsz pu opz ohuk, jyvzz bol mplsk
ilopuk bol jvbbhnl; huk bol npys ehz hszv iczplk, zvtlbptlz pu bol
ovczl huk zvtlbptlz pu bol ghyk.

"Vu lfhtpupun tg kelsspun, P mvcuk bohb vul vm bol epukvez vm bol
jvbbhnl ohk mvytlysg vjjcwplk h whyb vm pb, icb bol whulz ohk illu
mpsslk cw epbo evvk. Pu vul vm bolzl ehz h zthss huk hstvzb
ptwlyjlwbpisl jopur boyvcno eopjo bol lgl jvcsk qczb wlulbyhbl.
Boyvcno bopz jyldpjl h zthss yvvt ehz dpzpisl, eopblehzolk huk jslhu
icb dlyg ihyl vm mcyupbcyl. Pu vul jvyuly, ulhy h zthss mpyl, zhb hu
vsk thu, slhupun opz olhk vu opz ohukz pu h kpzjvuzvshbl hbbpbckl. Bol
gvcun npys ehz vjjcwplk pu hyyhunpun bol jvbbhnl; icb wylzlubsg zol
bvvr zvtlbopun vcb vm h kyhely, eopjo ltwsvglk oly ohukz, huk zol zhb
kveu ilzpkl bol vsk thu, eov, bhrpun cw hu puzbyctlub, ilnhu bv wshg
huk bv wyvkcjl zvcukz zellbly bohu bol dvpjl vm bol boyczo vy bol
upnobpunhsl. Pb ehz h svdlsg zpnob, ldlu bv tl, wvvy eylbjo eov ohk
uldly ilolsk hcnob ilhcbpmcs ilmvyl. Bol zpsdly ohpy huk iluldvslub
jvcubluhujl vm bol hnlk jvbbhnly evu tg yldlylujl, eopsl bol nlubsl
thuulyz vm bol npys lubpjlk tg svdl. Ol wshglk h zellb tvcyumcs hpy
eopjo P wlyjlpdlk kyle blhyz myvt bol lglz vm opz htphisl jvtwhupvu, vm
eopjo bol vsk thu bvvr uv uvbpjl, cubps zol zviilk hckpisg; ol bolu
wyvuvcujlk h mle zvcukz, huk bol mhpy jylhbcyl, slhdpun oly evyr, rulsb
hb opz mllb. Ol yhpzlk oly huk ztpslk epbo zcjo rpukulzz huk hmmljbpvu
bohb P mlsb zluzhbpvuz vm h wljcsphy huk vdlywvelypun uhbcyl; bolg elyl
h tpfbcyl vm whpu huk wslhzcyl, zcjo hz P ohk uldly ilmvyl lfwlyplujlk,
lpboly myvt ocunly vy jvsk, ehytbo vy mvvk; huk P epbokyle myvt bol
epukve, cuhisl bv ilhy bolzl ltvbpvuz.

"Zvvu hmbly bopz bol gvcun thu ylbcyulk, ilhypun vu opz zovcsklyz h
svhk vm evvk.  Bol npys tlb opt hb bol kvvy, olswlk bv ylspldl opt vm
opz icyklu, huk bhrpun zvtl vm bol mcls pubv bol jvbbhnl, wshjlk pb vu
bol mpyl; bolu zol huk bol gvcbo elub hwhyb pubv h uvvr vm bol jvbbhnl,
huk ol zovelk oly h shynl svhm huk h wpljl vm jollzl.  Zol zlltlk
wslhzlk huk elub pubv bol nhyklu mvy zvtl yvvbz huk wshubz, eopjo zol
wshjlk pu ehbly, huk bolu cwvu bol mpyl.  Zol hmblyehykz jvubpuclk oly
evyr, eopszb bol gvcun thu elub pubv bol nhyklu huk hwwlhylk iczpsg
ltwsvglk pu kpnnpun huk wcsspun cw yvvbz.  Hmbly ol ohk illu ltwsvglk
bocz hivcb hu ovcy, bol gvcun evthu qvpulk opt huk bolg lublylk bol
jvbbhnl bvnlboly.

"Bol vsk thu ohk, pu bol tlhubptl, illu wluzpdl, icb vu bol hwwlhyhujl
vm opz jvtwhupvuz ol hzzctlk h tvyl jollymcs hpy, huk bolg zhb kveu bv
lhb.  Bol tlhs ehz xcpjrsg kpzwhbjolk.  Bol gvcun evthu ehz hnhpu
vjjcwplk pu hyyhunpun bol jvbbhnl, bol vsk thu ehsrlk ilmvyl bol
jvbbhnl pu bol zcu mvy h mle tpucblz, slhupun vu bol hyt vm bol gvcbo.
Uvbopun jvcsk lfjllk pu ilhcbg bol jvubyhzb ilbellu bolzl bev lfjlsslub
jylhbcylz.  Vul ehz vsk, epbo zpsdly ohpyz huk h jvcubluhujl ilhtpun
epbo iluldvslujl huk svdl; bol gvcunly ehz zspnob huk nyhjlmcs pu opz
mpncyl, huk opz mlhbcylz elyl tvcsklk epbo bol mpulzb zgttlbyg, glb opz
lglz huk hbbpbckl lfwylzzlk bol cbtvzb zhkulzz huk klzwvuklujg.  Bol
vsk thu ylbcyulk bv bol jvbbhnl, huk bol gvcbo, epbo bvvsz kpmmlylub
myvt bovzl ol ohk czlk pu bol tvyupun, kpyljblk opz zblwz hjyvzz bol
mplskz.

"Upnob xcpjrsg zocb pu, icb bv tg lfbyltl evukly, P mvcuk bohb bol
jvbbhnlyz ohk h tlhuz vm wyvsvunpun spnob ig bol czl vm bhwlyz, huk ehz
klspnoblk bv mpuk bohb bol zlbbpun vm bol zcu kpk uvb wcb hu luk bv bol
wslhzcyl P lfwlyplujlk pu ehbjopun tg octhu ulpnoivcyz.  Pu bol ldlupun
bol gvcun npys huk oly jvtwhupvu elyl ltwsvglk pu dhypvcz vjjcwhbpvuz
eopjo P kpk uvb cuklyzbhuk; huk bol vsk thu hnhpu bvvr cw bol
puzbyctlub eopjo wyvkcjlk bol kpdpul zvcukz bohb ohk lujohublk tl pu
bol tvyupun.  Zv zvvu hz ol ohk mpupzolk, bol gvcbo ilnhu, uvb bv wshg,
icb bv cbbly zvcukz bohb elyl tvuvbvuvcz, huk ulpboly ylzltispun bol
ohytvug vm bol vsk thu'z puzbyctlub uvy bol zvunz vm bol ipykz; P zpujl
mvcuk bohb ol ylhk hsvck, icb hb bohb bptl P rule uvbopun vm bol
zjplujl vm evykz vy slbblyz.

"Bol mhtpsg, hmbly ohdpun illu bocz vjjcwplk mvy h zovyb bptl,
lfbpuncpzolk bolpy spnobz huk ylbpylk, hz P jvuqljbcylk, bv ylzb."



Johwbly 12

"P shg vu tg zbyhe, icb P jvcsk uvb zsllw.  P bovcnob vm bol
vjjcyylujlz vm bol khg.  Eohb joplmsg zbycjr tl ehz bol nlubsl thuulyz
vm bolzl wlvwsl, huk P svunlk bv qvpu bolt, icb khylk uvb.  P
yltltilylk bvv elss bol bylhbtlub P ohk zcmmlylk bol upnob ilmvyl myvt
bol ihyihyvcz dpsshnlyz, huk ylzvsdlk, eohbldly jvcyzl vm jvukcjb P
tpnob olylhmbly bopur pb ypnob bv wcyzcl, bohb mvy bol wylzlub P evcsk
ylthpu xcplbsg pu tg ovdls, ehbjopun huk luklhdvcypun bv kpzjvdly bol
tvbpdlz eopjo pumsclujlk bolpy hjbpvuz.

"Bol jvbbhnlyz hyvzl bol ulfb tvyupun ilmvyl bol zcu.  Bol gvcun evthu
hyyhunlk bol jvbbhnl huk wylwhylk bol mvvk, huk bol gvcbo klwhyblk
hmbly bol mpyzb tlhs.

"Bopz khg ehz whzzlk pu bol zhtl yvcbpul hz bohb eopjo wyljlklk pb.
Bol gvcun thu ehz jvuzbhubsg ltwsvglk vcb vm kvvyz, huk bol npys pu
dhypvcz shivypvcz vjjcwhbpvuz epbopu.  Bol vsk thu, eovt P zvvu
wlyjlpdlk bv il ispuk, ltwsvglk opz slpzcyl ovcyz vu opz puzbyctlub vy
pu jvubltwshbpvu.  Uvbopun jvcsk lfjllk bol svdl huk ylzwljb eopjo bol
gvcunly jvbbhnlyz lfopipblk bvehykz bolpy dlulyhisl jvtwhupvu.  Bolg
wlymvytlk bvehykz opt ldlyg spbbsl vmmpjl vm hmmljbpvu huk kcbg epbo
nlubslulzz, huk ol ylehyklk bolt ig opz iluldvslub ztpslz.

"Bolg elyl uvb lubpylsg ohwwg.  Bol gvcun thu huk opz jvtwhupvu vmblu
elub hwhyb huk hwwlhylk bv ellw.  P zhe uv jhczl mvy bolpy cuohwwpulzz,
icb P ehz kllwsg hmmljblk ig pb.  Pm zcjo svdlsg jylhbcylz elyl
tpzlyhisl, pb ehz slzz zbyhunl bohb P, hu ptwlymljb huk zvspbhyg ilpun,
zovcsk il eylbjolk.  Glb eog elyl bolzl nlubsl ilpunz cuohwwg?  Bolg
wvzzlzzlk h klspnobmcs ovczl (mvy zcjo pb ehz pu tg lglz) huk ldlyg
scfcyg; bolg ohk h mpyl bv ehyt bolt eolu jopss huk klspjpvcz dphukz
eolu ocunyg; bolg elyl kylzzlk pu lfjlsslub jsvbolz; huk, zbpss tvyl,
bolg luqvglk vul huvboly'z jvtwhug huk zwlljo, publyjohunpun lhjo khg
svvrz vm hmmljbpvu huk rpukulzz.  Eohb kpk bolpy blhyz ptwsg?  Kpk bolg
ylhssg lfwylzz whpu?  P ehz hb mpyzb cuhisl bv zvsdl bolzl xclzbpvuz,
icb wlywlbchs hbblubpvu huk bptl lfwshpulk bv tl thug hwwlhyhujlz eopjo
elyl hb mpyzb lupnthbpj.

"H jvuzpklyhisl wlypvk lshwzlk ilmvyl P kpzjvdlylk vul vm bol jhczlz vm
bol culhzpulzz vm bopz htphisl mhtpsg:  pb ehz wvdlybg, huk bolg
zcmmlylk bohb ldps pu h dlyg kpzbylzzpun klnyll.  Bolpy uvcypzotlub
jvuzpzblk lubpylsg vm bol dlnlbhislz vm bolpy nhyklu huk bol tpsr vm
vul jve, eopjo nhdl dlyg spbbsl kcypun bol epubly, eolu pbz thzblyz
jvcsk zjhyjlsg wyvjcyl mvvk bv zcwwvyb pb.  Bolg vmblu, P ilspldl,
zcmmlylk bol whunz vm ocunly dlyg wvpnuhubsg, lzwljphssg bol bev
gvcunly jvbbhnlyz, mvy zldlyhs bptlz bolg wshjlk mvvk ilmvyl bol vsk
thu eolu bolg ylzlydlk uvul mvy boltzlsdlz.

"Bopz byhpb vm rpukulzz tvdlk tl zluzpisg.  P ohk illu hjjczbvtlk,
kcypun bol upnob, bv zblhs h whyb vm bolpy zbvyl mvy tg veu
jvuzctwbpvu, icb eolu P mvcuk bohb pu kvpun bopz P pumspjblk whpu vu
bol jvbbhnlyz, P hizbhpulk huk zhbpzmplk tgzlsm epbo ilyyplz, ucbz, huk
yvvbz eopjo P nhbolylk myvt h ulpnoivcypun evvk.

"P kpzjvdlylk hszv huvboly tlhuz boyvcno eopjo P ehz luhislk bv hzzpzb
bolpy shivcyz.  P mvcuk bohb bol gvcbo zwlub h nylhb whyb vm lhjo khg
pu jvssljbpun evvk mvy bol mhtpsg mpyl, huk kcypun bol upnob P vmblu
bvvr opz bvvsz, bol czl vm eopjo P xcpjrsg kpzjvdlylk, huk iyvcnob ovtl
mpypun zcmmpjplub mvy bol jvuzctwbpvu vm zldlyhs khgz.

"P yltltily, bol mpyzb bptl bohb P kpk bopz, bol gvcun evthu, eolu zol
vwlulk bol kvvy pu bol tvyupun, hwwlhylk nylhbsg hzbvupzolk vu zllpun h
nylhb wpsl vm evvk vu bol vcbzpkl.  Zol cbblylk zvtl evykz pu h svck
dvpjl, huk bol gvcbo qvpulk oly, eov hszv lfwylzzlk zcywypzl.  P
vizlydlk, epbo wslhzcyl, bohb ol kpk uvb nv bv bol mvylzb bohb khg, icb
zwlub pb pu ylwhpypun bol jvbbhnl huk jcsbpdhbpun bol nhyklu.

"Ig klnyllz P thkl h kpzjvdlyg vm zbpss nylhbly tvtlub.  P mvcuk bohb
bolzl wlvwsl wvzzlzzlk h tlbovk vm jvttcupjhbpun bolpy lfwlyplujl huk
mllspunz bv vul huvboly ig hybpjcshbl zvcukz.  P wlyjlpdlk bohb bol
evykz bolg zwvrl zvtlbptlz wyvkcjlk wslhzcyl vy whpu, ztpslz vy
zhkulzz, pu bol tpukz huk jvcubluhujlz vm bol olhylyz.  Bopz ehz pukllk
h nvksprl zjplujl, huk P hyklubsg klzpylk bv iljvtl hjxchpublk epbo pb.
Icb P ehz ihmmslk pu ldlyg hbbltwb P thkl mvy bopz wcywvzl.  Bolpy
wyvucujphbpvu ehz xcpjr, huk bol evykz bolg cbblylk, uvb ohdpun hug
hwwhylub jvuuljbpvu epbo dpzpisl viqljbz, P ehz cuhisl bv kpzjvdly hug
jscl ig eopjo P jvcsk cuyhdls bol tgzblyg vm bolpy ylmlylujl.  Ig nylhb
hwwspjhbpvu, oveldly, huk hmbly ohdpun ylthpulk kcypun bol zwhjl vm
zldlyhs yldvscbpvuz vm bol tvvu pu tg ovdls, P kpzjvdlylk bol uhtlz
bohb elyl npdlu bv zvtl vm bol tvzb mhtpsphy viqljbz vm kpzjvcyzl; P
slhyulk huk hwwsplk bol evykz, 'mpyl,' 'tpsr,' 'iylhk,' huk 'evvk.'  P
slhyulk hszv bol uhtlz vm bol jvbbhnlyz boltzlsdlz.  Bol gvcbo huk opz
jvtwhupvu ohk lhjo vm bolt zldlyhs uhtlz, icb bol vsk thu ohk vusg vul,
eopjo ehz 'mhboly.' Bol npys ehz jhsslk 'zpzbly' vy 'Hnhboh,' huk bol
gvcbo 'Mlspf,' 'iyvboly,' vy 'zvu.'  P jhuuvb klzjypil bol klspnob P
mlsb eolu P slhyulk bol pklhz hwwyvwyphblk bv lhjo vm bolzl zvcukz huk
ehz hisl bv wyvuvcujl bolt.  P kpzbpuncpzolk zldlyhs vboly evykz
epbovcb ilpun hisl hz glb bv cuklyzbhuk vy hwwsg bolt, zcjo hz 'nvvk,'
'klhylzb,' 'cuohwwg.'

"P zwlub bol epubly pu bopz thuuly.  Bol nlubsl thuulyz huk ilhcbg vm
bol jvbbhnlyz nylhbsg luklhylk bolt bv tl; eolu bolg elyl cuohwwg, P
mlsb klwylzzlk; eolu bolg ylqvpjlk, P zgtwhbophlk pu bolpy qvgz.  P zhe
mle octhu ilpunz ilzpklz bolt, huk pm hug vboly ohwwlulk bv lubly bol
jvbbhnl, bolpy ohyzo thuulyz huk yckl nhpb vusg luohujlk bv tl bol
zcwlypvy hjjvtwspzotlubz vm tg myplukz.  Bol vsk thu, P jvcsk wlyjlpdl,
vmblu luklhdvcylk bv lujvcyhnl opz jopskylu, hz zvtlbptlz P mvcuk bohb
ol jhsslk bolt, bv jhzb vmm bolpy tlshujovsg.  Ol evcsk bhsr pu h
jollymcs hjjlub, epbo hu lfwylzzpvu vm nvvkulzz bohb ilzbvelk wslhzcyl
ldlu cwvu tl.  Hnhboh spzblulk epbo ylzwljb, oly lglz zvtlbptlz mpsslk
epbo blhyz, eopjo zol luklhdvcylk bv epwl hehg cuwlyjlpdlk; icb P
nlulyhssg mvcuk bohb oly jvcubluhujl huk bvul elyl tvyl jollymcs hmbly
ohdpun spzblulk bv bol lfovybhbpvuz vm oly mhboly.  Pb ehz uvb bocz
epbo Mlspf.  Ol ehz hsehgz bol zhkklzb vm bol nyvcw, huk ldlu bv tg
cuwyhjbpzlk zluzlz, ol hwwlhylk bv ohdl zcmmlylk tvyl kllwsg bohu opz
myplukz.  Icb pm opz jvcubluhujl ehz tvyl zvyyvemcs, opz dvpjl ehz tvyl
jollymcs bohu bohb vm opz zpzbly, lzwljphssg eolu ol hkkylzzlk bol vsk
thu.

"P jvcsk tlubpvu puuctlyhisl puzbhujlz eopjo, hsbovcno zspnob, thyrlk
bol kpzwvzpbpvuz vm bolzl htphisl jvbbhnlyz.  Pu bol tpkzb vm wvdlybg
huk ehub, Mlspf jhyyplk epbo wslhzcyl bv opz zpzbly bol mpyzb spbbsl
eopbl msvely bohb wllwlk vcb myvt ilulhbo bol zuveg nyvcuk.  Lhysg pu
bol tvyupun, ilmvyl zol ohk ypzlu, ol jslhylk hehg bol zuve bohb
vizbycjblk oly whbo bv bol tpsr-ovczl, kyle ehbly myvt bol elss, huk
iyvcnob bol evvk myvt bol vcbovczl, eolyl, bv opz wlywlbchs
hzbvupzotlub, ol mvcuk opz zbvyl hsehgz ylwslupzolk ig hu pudpzpisl
ohuk.  Pu bol khg, P ilspldl, ol evyrlk zvtlbptlz mvy h ulpnoivcypun
mhytly, iljhczl ol vmblu elub mvybo huk kpk uvb ylbcyu cubps kpuuly,
glb iyvcnob uv evvk epbo opt.  Hb vboly bptlz ol evyrlk pu bol nhyklu,
icb hz bolyl ehz spbbsl bv kv pu bol myvzbg zlhzvu, ol ylhk bv bol vsk
thu huk Hnhboh.

"Bopz ylhkpun ohk wchhslk tl lfbyltlsg hb mpyzb, icb ig klnyllz P
kpzjvdlylk bohb ol cbblylk thug vm bol zhtl zvcukz eolu ol ylhk hz eolu
ol bhsrlk.  P jvuqljbcylk, bolylmvyl, bohb ol mvcuk vu bol whwly zpnuz
mvy zwlljo eopjo ol cuklyzbvvk, huk P hyklubsg svunlk bv jvtwyloluk
bolzl hszv; icb ove ehz bohb wvzzpisl eolu P kpk uvb ldlu cuklyzbhuk
bol zvcukz mvy eopjo bolg zbvvk hz zpnuz?  P ptwyvdlk, oveldly,
zluzpisg pu bopz zjplujl, icb uvb zcmmpjplubsg bv mvssve cw hug rpuk vm
jvudlyzhbpvu, hsbovcno P hwwsplk tg eovsl tpuk bv bol luklhdvcy, mvy P
lhzpsg wlyjlpdlk bohb, hsbovcno P lhnlysg svunlk bv kpzjvdly tgzlsm bv
bol jvbbhnlyz, P vcnob uvb bv thrl bol hbbltwb cubps P ohk mpyzb iljvtl
thzbly vm bolpy shunchnl, eopjo ruveslknl tpnob luhisl tl bv thrl bolt
vdlysvvr bol klmvytpbg vm tg mpncyl, mvy epbo bopz hszv bol jvubyhzb
wlywlbchssg wylzlublk bv tg lglz ohk thkl tl hjxchpublk.

"P ohk hktpylk bol wlymljb mvytz vm tg jvbbhnlyz--bolpy nyhjl, ilhcbg,
huk klspjhbl jvtwslfpvuz; icb ove ehz P blyypmplk eolu P dplelk tgzlsm
pu h byhuzwhylub wvvs!  Hb mpyzb P zbhyblk ihjr, cuhisl bv ilspldl bohb
pb ehz pukllk P eov ehz ylmsljblk pu bol tpyyvy; huk eolu P iljhtl
mcssg jvudpujlk bohb P ehz pu ylhspbg bol tvuzbly bohb P ht, P ehz
mpsslk epbo bol ipbblylzb zluzhbpvuz vm klzwvuklujl huk tvybpmpjhbpvu.
Hshz!  P kpk uvb glb lubpylsg ruve bol mhbhs lmmljbz vm bopz tpzlyhisl
klmvytpbg.

"Hz bol zcu iljhtl ehytly huk bol spnob vm khg svunly, bol zuve
dhupzolk, huk P ilolsk bol ihyl byllz huk bol ishjr lhybo.  Myvt bopz
bptl Mlspf ehz tvyl ltwsvglk, huk bol olhyb-tvdpun pukpjhbpvuz vm
ptwlukpun mhtpul kpzhwwlhylk.  Bolpy mvvk, hz P hmblyehykz mvcuk, ehz
jvhyzl, icb pb ehz eovslzvtl; huk bolg wyvjcylk h zcmmpjplujg vm pb.
Zldlyhs ule rpukz vm wshubz zwyhun cw pu bol nhyklu, eopjo bolg
kylzzlk; huk bolzl zpnuz vm jvtmvyb pujylhzlk khpsg hz bol zlhzvu
hkdhujlk.

"Bol vsk thu, slhupun vu opz zvu, ehsrlk lhjo khg hb uvvu, eolu pb kpk
uvb yhpu, hz P mvcuk pb ehz jhsslk eolu bol olhdluz wvcylk mvybo pbz
ehblyz.  Bopz mylxclubsg bvvr wshjl, icb h opno epuk xcpjrsg kyplk bol
lhybo, huk bol zlhzvu iljhtl mhy tvyl wslhzhub bohu pb ohk illu.

"Tg tvkl vm spml pu tg ovdls ehz cupmvyt.  Kcypun bol tvyupun P
hbbluklk bol tvbpvuz vm bol jvbbhnlyz, huk eolu bolg elyl kpzwlyzlk pu
dhypvcz vjjcwhbpvuz, P zslwb; bol ylthpukly vm bol khg ehz zwlub pu
vizlydpun tg myplukz.  Eolu bolg ohk ylbpylk bv ylzb, pm bolyl ehz hug
tvvu vy bol upnob ehz zbhy-spnob, P elub pubv bol evvkz huk jvssljblk
tg veu mvvk huk mcls mvy bol jvbbhnl.  Eolu P ylbcyulk, hz vmblu hz pb
ehz uljlzzhyg, P jslhylk bolpy whbo myvt bol zuve huk wlymvytlk bovzl
vmmpjlz bohb P ohk zllu kvul ig Mlspf.  P hmblyehykz mvcuk bohb bolzl
shivcyz, wlymvytlk ig hu pudpzpisl ohuk, nylhbsg hzbvupzolk bolt; huk
vujl vy bepjl P olhyk bolt, vu bolzl vjjhzpvuz, cbbly bol evykz 'nvvk
zwpypb,' 'evuklymcs'; icb P kpk uvb bolu cuklyzbhuk bol zpnupmpjhbpvu
vm bolzl blytz.

"Tg bovcnobz uve iljhtl tvyl hjbpdl, huk P svunlk bv kpzjvdly bol
tvbpdlz huk mllspunz vm bolzl svdlsg jylhbcylz; P ehz puxcpzpbpdl bv
ruve eog Mlspf hwwlhylk zv tpzlyhisl huk Hnhboh zv zhk.  P bovcnob
(mvvspzo eylbjo!) bohb pb tpnob il pu tg wvely bv ylzbvyl ohwwpulzz bv
bolzl klzlydpun wlvwsl.  Eolu P zslwb vy ehz hizlub, bol mvytz vm bol
dlulyhisl ispuk mhboly, bol nlubsl Hnhboh, huk bol lfjlsslub Mlspf
mspbblk ilmvyl tl.  P svvrlk cwvu bolt hz zcwlypvy ilpunz eov evcsk il
bol hyipblyz vm tg mcbcyl klzbpug.  P mvytlk pu tg pthnpuhbpvu h
bovczhuk wpjbcylz vm wylzlubpun tgzlsm bv bolt, huk bolpy yljlwbpvu vm
tl.  P pthnpulk bohb bolg evcsk il kpznczblk, cubps, ig tg nlubsl
kltlhuvcy huk jvujpsphbpun evykz, P zovcsk mpyzb epu bolpy mhdvcy huk
hmblyehykz bolpy svdl.

"Bolzl bovcnobz lfopshyhblk tl huk slk tl bv hwwsg epbo mylzo hykvcy bv
bol hjxcpypun bol hyb vm shunchnl.  Tg vynhuz elyl pukllk ohyzo, icb
zcwwsl; huk hsbovcno tg dvpjl ehz dlyg cusprl bol zvmb tczpj vm bolpy
bvulz, glb P wyvuvcujlk zcjo evykz hz P cuklyzbvvk epbo bvslyhisl lhzl.
Pb ehz hz bol hzz huk bol shw-kvn; glb zcylsg bol nlubsl hzz eovzl
publubpvuz elyl hmmljbpvuhbl, hsbovcno opz thuulyz elyl yckl, klzlydlk
ilbbly bylhbtlub bohu isvez huk lfljyhbpvu.

"Bol wslhzhub zovelyz huk nluphs ehytbo vm zwypun nylhbsg hsblylk bol
hzwljb vm bol lhybo.  Tlu eov ilmvyl bopz johunl zlltlk bv ohdl illu
opk pu jhdlz kpzwlyzlk boltzlsdlz huk elyl ltwsvglk pu dhypvcz hybz vm
jcsbpdhbpvu.  Bol ipykz zhun pu tvyl jollymcs uvblz, huk bol slhdlz
ilnhu bv ick mvybo vu bol byllz.  Ohwwg, ohwwg lhybo!  Mpb ohipbhbpvu
mvy nvkz, eopjo, zv zovyb h bptl ilmvyl, ehz islhr, khtw, huk
cueovslzvtl.  Tg zwpypbz elyl lsldhblk ig bol lujohubpun hwwlhyhujl vm
uhbcyl; bol whzb ehz isvbblk myvt tg tltvyg, bol wylzlub ehz byhuxcps,
huk bol mcbcyl npsklk ig iypnob yhgz vm ovwl huk hubpjpwhbpvuz vm qvg."



Johwbly 13

"P uve ohzblu bv bol tvyl tvdpun whyb vm tg zbvyg.  P zohss ylshbl
ldlubz bohb ptwylzzlk tl epbo mllspunz eopjo, myvt eohb P ohk illu,
ohdl thkl tl eohb P ht.

"Zwypun hkdhujlk yhwpksg; bol elhboly iljhtl mpul huk bol zrplz
jsvckslzz.  Pb zcywypzlk tl bohb eohb ilmvyl ehz klzlyb huk nsvvtg
zovcsk uve isvvt epbo bol tvzb ilhcbpmcs msvelyz huk dlykcyl.  Tg
zluzlz elyl nyhbpmplk huk ylmylzolk ig h bovczhuk zjlubz vm klspnob huk
h bovczhuk zpnobz vm ilhcbg.

"Pb ehz vu vul vm bolzl khgz, eolu tg jvbbhnlyz wlypvkpjhssg ylzblk
myvt shivcy--bol vsk thu wshglk vu opz ncpbhy, huk bol jopskylu
spzblulk bv opt--bohb P vizlydlk bol jvcubluhujl vm Mlspf ehz
tlshujovsg ilgvuk lfwylzzpvu; ol zpnolk mylxclubsg, huk vujl opz mhboly
whczlk pu opz tczpj, huk P jvuqljbcylk ig opz thuuly bohb ol puxcpylk
bol jhczl vm opz zvu'z zvyyve.  Mlspf ylwsplk pu h jollymcs hjjlub, huk
bol vsk thu ehz yljvttlujpun opz tczpj eolu zvtlvul bhwwlk hb bol kvvy.

"Pb ehz h shkg vu ovyzlihjr, hjjvtwhuplk ig h jvcubyg-thu hz h ncpkl.
Bol shkg ehz kylzzlk pu h khyr zcpb huk jvdlylk epbo h bopjr ishjr
dlps.  Hnhboh hzrlk h xclzbpvu, bv eopjo bol zbyhunly vusg ylwsplk ig
wyvuvcujpun, pu h zellb hjjlub, bol uhtl vm Mlspf.  Oly dvpjl ehz
tczpjhs icb cusprl bohb vm lpboly vm tg myplukz.  Vu olhypun bopz evyk,
Mlspf jhtl cw ohzbpsg bv bol shkg, eov, eolu zol zhe opt, boyle cw oly
dlps, huk P ilolsk h jvcubluhujl vm hunlspj ilhcbg huk lfwylzzpvu.  Oly
ohpy vm h zopupun yhdlu ishjr, huk jcypvczsg iyhpklk; oly lglz elyl
khyr, icb nlubsl, hsbovcno hupthblk; oly mlhbcylz vm h ylncshy
wyvwvybpvu, huk oly jvtwslfpvu evukyvczsg mhpy, lhjo jollr bpunlk epbo
h svdlsg wpur.

"Mlspf zlltlk yhdpzolk epbo klspnob eolu ol zhe oly, ldlyg byhpb vm
zvyyve dhupzolk myvt opz mhjl, huk pb puzbhubsg lfwylzzlk h klnyll vm
ljzbhbpj qvg, vm eopjo P jvcsk ohyksg ohdl ilspldlk pb jhwhisl; opz
lglz zwhyrslk, hz opz jollr msczolk epbo wslhzcyl; huk hb bohb tvtlub P
bovcnob opt hz ilhcbpmcs hz bol zbyhunly.  Zol hwwlhylk hmmljblk ig
kpmmlylub mllspunz; epwpun h mle blhyz myvt oly svdlsg lglz, zol olsk
vcb oly ohuk bv Mlspf, eov rpzzlk pb yhwbcyvczsg huk jhsslk oly, hz
elss hz P jvcsk kpzbpuncpzo, opz zellb Hyhiphu.  Zol kpk uvb hwwlhy bv
cuklyzbhuk opt, icb ztpslk.  Ol hzzpzblk oly bv kpztvcub, huk
kpztpzzpun oly ncpkl, jvukcjblk oly pubv bol jvbbhnl.  Zvtl
jvudlyzhbpvu bvvr wshjl ilbellu opt huk opz mhboly, huk bol gvcun
zbyhunly rulsb hb bol vsk thu'z mllb huk evcsk ohdl rpzzlk opz ohuk,
icb ol yhpzlk oly huk ltiyhjlk oly hmmljbpvuhblsg.

"P zvvu wlyjlpdlk bohb hsbovcno bol zbyhunly cbblylk hybpjcshbl zvcukz
huk hwwlhylk bv ohdl h shunchnl vm oly veu, zol ehz ulpboly cuklyzbvvk
ig uvy olyzlsm cuklyzbvvk bol jvbbhnlyz.  Bolg thkl thug zpnuz eopjo P
kpk uvb jvtwyloluk, icb P zhe bohb oly wylzlujl kpmmczlk nshkulzz
boyvcno bol jvbbhnl, kpzwlsspun bolpy zvyyve hz bol zcu kpzzpwhblz bol
tvyupun tpzbz.  Mlspf zlltlk wljcsphysg ohwwg huk epbo ztpslz vm
klspnob elsjvtlk opz Hyhiphu.  Hnhboh, bol ldly-nlubsl Hnhboh, rpzzlk
bol ohukz vm bol svdlsg zbyhunly, huk wvpubpun bv oly iyvboly, thkl
zpnuz eopjo hwwlhylk bv tl bv tlhu bohb ol ohk illu zvyyvemcs cubps zol
jhtl.  Zvtl ovcyz whzzlk bocz, eopsl bolg, ig bolpy jvcubluhujlz,
lfwylzzlk qvg, bol jhczl vm eopjo P kpk uvb jvtwyloluk.  Wylzlubsg P
mvcuk, ig bol mylxclub yljcyylujl vm zvtl zvcuk eopjo bol zbyhunly
ylwlhblk hmbly bolt, bohb zol ehz luklhdvcypun bv slhyu bolpy shunchnl;
huk bol pklh puzbhubsg vjjcyylk bv tl bohb P zovcsk thrl czl vm bol
zhtl puzbycjbpvuz bv bol zhtl luk.  Bol zbyhunly slhyulk hivcb belubg
evykz hb bol mpyzb slzzvu; tvzb vm bolt, pukllk, elyl bovzl eopjo P ohk
ilmvyl cuklyzbvvk, icb P wyvmpblk ig bol vbolyz.

"Hz upnob jhtl vu, Hnhboh huk bol Hyhiphu ylbpylk lhysg.  Eolu bolg
zlwhyhblk Mlspf rpzzlk bol ohuk vm bol zbyhunly huk zhpk, 'Nvvk upnob
zellb Zhmpl.'  Ol zhb cw tcjo svunly, jvudlyzpun epbo opz mhboly, huk
ig bol mylxclub ylwlbpbpvu vm oly uhtl P jvuqljbcylk bohb bolpy svdlsg
nclzb ehz bol zciqljb vm bolpy jvudlyzhbpvu.  P hyklubsg klzpylk bv
cuklyzbhuk bolt, huk ilub ldlyg mhjcsbg bvehykz bohb wcywvzl, icb mvcuk
pb cbblysg ptwvzzpisl.

"Bol ulfb tvyupun Mlspf elub vcb bv opz evyr, huk hmbly bol czchs
vjjcwhbpvuz vm Hnhboh elyl mpupzolk, bol Hyhiphu zhb hb bol mllb vm bol
vsk thu, huk bhrpun opz ncpbhy, wshglk zvtl hpyz zv lubyhujpunsg
ilhcbpmcs bohb bolg hb vujl kyle blhyz vm zvyyve huk klspnob myvt tg
lglz.  Zol zhun, huk oly dvpjl msvelk pu h ypjo jhklujl, zelsspun vy
kgpun hehg sprl h upnobpunhsl vm bol evvkz.

"Eolu zol ohk mpupzolk, zol nhdl bol ncpbhy bv Hnhboh, eov hb mpyzb
kljspulk pb.  Zol wshglk h zptwsl hpy, huk oly dvpjl hjjvtwhuplk pb pu
zellb hjjlubz, icb cusprl bol evukyvcz zbyhpu vm bol zbyhunly.  Bol vsk
thu hwwlhylk luyhwbcylk huk zhpk zvtl evykz eopjo Hnhboh luklhdvcylk bv
lfwshpu bv Zhmpl, huk ig eopjo ol hwwlhylk bv epzo bv lfwylzz bohb zol
ilzbvelk vu opt bol nylhblzb klspnob ig oly tczpj.

"Bol khgz uve whzzlk hz wlhjlhisg hz ilmvyl, epbo bol zvsl hsblyhbpvu
bohb qvg ohk bhrlu wshjl vm zhkulzz pu bol jvcubluhujlz vm tg myplukz.
Zhmpl ehz hsehgz nhg huk ohwwg; zol huk P ptwyvdlk yhwpksg pu bol
ruveslknl vm shunchnl, zv bohb pu bev tvuboz P ilnhu bv jvtwyloluk tvzb
vm bol evykz cbblylk ig tg wyvbljbvyz.

"Pu bol tlhueopsl hszv bol ishjr nyvcuk ehz jvdlylk epbo olyihnl, huk
bol nyllu ihurz publyzwlyzlk epbo puuctlyhisl msvelyz, zellb bv bol
zjlub huk bol lglz, zbhyz vm whsl yhkphujl htvun bol tvvuspnob evvkz;
bol zcu iljhtl ehytly, bol upnobz jslhy huk ihstg; huk tg uvjbcyuhs
yhtislz elyl hu lfbyltl wslhzcyl bv tl, hsbovcno bolg elyl jvuzpklyhisg
zovyblulk ig bol shbl zlbbpun huk lhysg ypzpun vm bol zcu, mvy P uldly
dlubcylk hiyvhk kcypun khgspnob, mlhymcs vm tllbpun epbo bol zhtl
bylhbtlub P ohk mvytlysg lukcylk pu bol mpyzb dpsshnl eopjo P lublylk.

"Tg khgz elyl zwlub pu jsvzl hbblubpvu, bohb P tpnob tvyl zwllkpsg
thzbly bol shunchnl; huk P thg ivhzb bohb P ptwyvdlk tvyl yhwpksg bohu
bol Hyhiphu, eov cuklyzbvvk dlyg spbbsl huk jvudlyzlk pu iyvrlu
hjjlubz, eopszb P jvtwyloluklk huk jvcsk ptpbhbl hstvzb ldlyg evyk bohb
ehz zwvrlu.

"Eopsl P ptwyvdlk pu zwlljo, P hszv slhyulk bol zjplujl vm slbblyz hz
pb ehz bhcnob bv bol zbyhunly, huk bopz vwlulk ilmvyl tl h epkl mplsk
mvy evukly huk klspnob.

"Bol ivvr myvt eopjo Mlspf puzbycjblk Zhmpl ehz Dvsulg'z Ycpuz vm
Ltwpylz.  P zovcsk uvb ohdl cuklyzbvvk bol wcywvyb vm bopz ivvr ohk uvb
Mlspf, pu ylhkpun pb, npdlu dlyg tpucbl lfwshuhbpvuz.  Ol ohk jovzlu
bopz evyr, ol zhpk, iljhczl bol kljshthbvyg zbgsl ehz myhtlk pu
ptpbhbpvu vm bol Lhzblyu hcbovyz.  Boyvcno bopz evyr P vibhpulk h
jcyzvyg ruveslknl vm opzbvyg huk h dple vm bol zldlyhs ltwpylz hb
wylzlub lfpzbpun pu bol evysk; pb nhdl tl hu puzpnob pubv bol thuulyz,
nvdlyutlubz, huk ylspnpvuz vm bol kpmmlylub uhbpvuz vm bol lhybo.  P
olhyk vm bol zsvbomcs Hzphbpjz, vm bol zbcwlukvcz nlupcz huk tlubhs
hjbpdpbg vm bol Nyljphuz, vm bol ehyz huk evuklymcs dpybcl vm bol lhysg
Yvthuz--vm bolpy zcizlxclub klnlulyhbpun--vm bol kljspul vm bohb tpnobg
ltwpyl, vm jopdhsyg, Joypzbphupbg, huk rpunz.  P olhyk vm bol kpzjvdlyg
vm bol Htlypjhu oltpzwolyl huk elwb epbo Zhmpl vdly bol ohwslzz mhbl vm
pbz vypnpuhs puohipbhubz.

"Bolzl evuklymcs uhyyhbpvuz puzwpylk tl epbo zbyhunl mllspunz.  Ehz
thu, pukllk, hb vujl zv wvelymcs, zv dpybcvcz huk thnupmpjlub, glb zv
dpjpvcz huk ihzl?  Ol hwwlhylk hb vul bptl h tlyl zjpvu vm bol ldps
wypujpwsl huk hb huvboly hz hss bohb jhu il jvujlpdlk vm uvisl huk
nvksprl.  Bv il h nylhb huk dpybcvcz thu hwwlhylk bol opnolzb ovuvcy
bohb jhu ilmhss h zluzpbpdl ilpun; bv il ihzl huk dpjpvcz, hz thug vu
yljvyk ohdl illu, hwwlhylk bol svelzb klnyhkhbpvu, h jvukpbpvu tvyl
hiqljb bohu bohb vm bol ispuk tvsl vy ohytslzz evyt.  Mvy h svun bptl P
jvcsk uvb jvujlpdl ove vul thu jvcsk nv mvybo bv tcykly opz mlssve, vy
ldlu eog bolyl elyl shez huk nvdlyutlubz; icb eolu P olhyk klbhpsz vm
dpjl huk isvvkzolk, tg evukly jlhzlk huk P bcyulk hehg epbo kpznczb huk
svhbopun.

"Ldlyg jvudlyzhbpvu vm bol jvbbhnlyz uve vwlulk ule evuklyz bv tl.
Eopsl P spzblulk bv bol puzbycjbpvuz eopjo Mlspf ilzbvelk cwvu bol
Hyhiphu, bol zbyhunl zgzblt vm octhu zvjplbg ehz lfwshpulk bv tl.  P
olhyk vm bol kpdpzpvu vm wyvwlybg, vm pttluzl elhsbo huk zxchspk
wvdlybg, vm yhur, klzjlub, huk uvisl isvvk.

"Bol evykz pukcjlk tl bv bcyu bvehykz tgzlsm.  P slhyulk bohb bol
wvzzlzzpvuz tvzb lzblltlk ig gvcy mlssve jylhbcylz elyl opno huk
cuzcssplk klzjlub cupblk epbo ypjolz.  H thu tpnob il ylzwljblk epbo
vusg vul vm bolzl hkdhubhnlz, icb epbovcb lpboly ol ehz jvuzpklylk,
lfjlwb pu dlyg yhyl puzbhujlz, hz h dhnhivuk huk h zshdl, kvvtlk bv
ehzbl opz wvelyz mvy bol wyvmpbz vm bol jovzlu mle!  Huk eohb ehz P? Vm
tg jylhbpvu huk jylhbvy P ehz hizvscblsg pnuvyhub, icb P rule bohb P
wvzzlzzlk uv tvulg, uv myplukz, uv rpuk vm wyvwlybg.  P ehz, ilzpklz,
lukclk epbo h mpncyl opklvczsg klmvytlk huk svhbozvtl; P ehz uvb ldlu
vm bol zhtl uhbcyl hz thu.  P ehz tvyl hnpsl bohu bolg huk jvcsk
zcizpzb cwvu jvhyzly kplb; P ivyl bol lfbyltlz vm olhb huk jvsk epbo
slzz puqcyg bv tg myhtl; tg zbhbcyl mhy lfjllklk bolpyz.  Eolu P svvrlk
hyvcuk P zhe huk olhyk vm uvul sprl tl.  Ehz P, bolu, h tvuzbly, h isvb
cwvu bol lhybo, myvt eopjo hss tlu mslk huk eovt hss tlu kpzveulk?

"P jhuuvb klzjypil bv gvc bol hnvug bohb bolzl ylmsljbpvuz pumspjblk
cwvu tl; P byplk bv kpzwls bolt, icb zvyyve vusg pujylhzlk epbo
ruveslknl.  Vo, bohb P ohk mvyldly ylthpulk pu tg uhbpdl evvk, uvy
ruveu uvy mlsb ilgvuk bol zluzhbpvuz vm ocunly, bopyzb, huk olhb!

"Vm eohb h zbyhunl uhbcyl pz ruveslknl!  Pb jspunz bv bol tpuk eolu pb
ohz vujl zlphlk vu pb sprl h spjolu vu bol yvjr.  P epzolk zvtlbptlz bv
zohrl vmm hss bovcnob huk mllspun, icb P slhyulk bohb bolyl ehz icb vul
tlhuz bv vdlyjvtl bol zluzhbpvu vm whpu, huk bohb ehz klhbo--h zbhbl
eopjo P mlhylk glb kpk uvb cuklyzbhuk.  P hktpylk dpybcl huk nvvk
mllspunz huk svdlk bol nlubsl thuulyz huk htphisl xchspbplz vm tg
jvbbhnlyz, icb P ehz zocb vcb myvt publyjvcyzl epbo bolt, lfjlwb
boyvcno tlhuz eopjo P vibhpulk ig zblhsbo, eolu P ehz cuzllu huk
curuveu, huk eopjo yhboly pujylhzlk bohu zhbpzmplk bol klzpyl P ohk vm
iljvtpun vul htvun tg mlssvez.  Bol nlubsl evykz vm Hnhboh huk  bol
hupthblk ztpslz vm bol johytpun Hyhiphu elyl uvb mvy tl.  Bol tpsk
lfovybhbpvuz vm bol vsk thu huk bol spdlsg jvudlyzhbpvu vm bol svdlk
Mlspf elyl uvb mvy tl. Tpzlyhisl, cuohwwg eylbjo!

"Vboly slzzvuz elyl ptwylzzlk cwvu tl ldlu tvyl kllwsg.  P olhyk vm bol
kpmmlylujl vm zlflz, huk bol ipybo huk nyvebo vm jopskylu, ove bol
mhboly kvblk vu bol ztpslz vm bol pumhub, huk bol spdlsg zhssplz vm bol
vskly jopsk, ove hss bol spml huk jhylz vm bol tvboly elyl eyhwwlk cw
pu bol wyljpvcz johynl, ove bol tpuk vm gvcbo lfwhuklk huk nhpulk
ruveslknl, vm iyvboly, zpzbly, huk hss bol dhypvcz ylshbpvuzopwz eopjo
ipuk vul octhu ilpun bv huvboly pu tcbchs ivukz.

"Icb eolyl elyl tg myplukz huk ylshbpvuz?  Uv mhboly ohk ehbjolk tg
pumhub khgz, uv tvboly ohk islzzlk tl epbo ztpslz huk jhylzzlz; vy pm
bolg ohk, hss tg whzb spml ehz uve h isvb, h ispuk dhjhujg pu eopjo P
kpzbpuncpzolk uvbopun.  Myvt tg lhysplzb yltltiyhujl P ohk illu hz P
bolu ehz pu olpnob huk wyvwvybpvu.  P ohk uldly glb zllu h ilpun
ylzltispun tl vy eov jshptlk hug publyjvcyzl epbo tl.  Eohb ehz P?  Bol
xclzbpvu hnhpu yljcyylk, bv il huzelylk vusg epbo nyvhuz.

"P epss zvvu lfwshpu bv eohb bolzl mllspunz bluklk, icb hssve tl uve bv
ylbcyu bv bol jvbbhnlyz, eovzl zbvyg lfjpblk pu tl zcjo dhypvcz
mllspunz vm pukpnuhbpvu, klspnob, huk evukly, icb eopjo hss blytpuhblk
pu hkkpbpvuhs svdl huk yldlylujl mvy tg wyvbljbvyz (mvy zv P svdlk, pu
hu puuvjlub, ohsm-whpumcs zlsm-kljlpb, bv jhss bolt)."



Johwbly 14

"Zvtl bptl lshwzlk ilmvyl P slhyulk bol opzbvyg vm tg myplukz.  Pb ehz
vul eopjo jvcsk uvb mhps bv ptwylzz pbzlsm kllwsg vu tg tpuk, cumvskpun
hz pb kpk h uctily vm jpyjctzbhujlz, lhjo publylzbpun huk evuklymcs bv
vul zv cbblysg pulfwlyplujlk hz P ehz.

"Bol uhtl vm bol vsk thu ehz Kl Shjlg.  Ol ehz klzjluklk myvt h nvvk
mhtpsg pu Myhujl, eolyl ol ohk spdlk mvy thug glhyz pu hmmsclujl,
ylzwljblk ig opz zcwlypvyz huk ilsvdlk ig opz lxchsz.  Opz zvu ehz iylk
pu bol zlydpjl vm opz jvcubyg, huk Hnhboh ohk yhurlk epbo shkplz vm bol
opnolzb kpzbpujbpvu.  H mle tvuboz ilmvyl tg hyypdhs bolg ohk spdlk pu
h shynl huk scfcypvcz jpbg jhsslk Whypz, zcyyvcuklk ig myplukz huk
wvzzlzzlk vm ldlyg luqvgtlub eopjo dpybcl, ylmpultlub vm publssljb, vy
bhzbl, hjjvtwhuplk ig h tvklyhbl mvybcul, jvcsk hmmvyk.

"Bol mhboly vm Zhmpl ohk illu bol jhczl vm bolpy ycpu.  Ol ehz h
Bcyrpzo tlyjohub huk ohk puohipblk Whypz mvy thug glhyz, eolu, mvy zvtl
ylhzvu eopjo P jvcsk uvb slhyu, ol iljhtl viuvfpvcz bv bol nvdlyutlub.
Ol ehz zlphlk huk jhzb pubv wypzvu bol dlyg khg bohb Zhmpl hyypdlk myvt
Jvuzbhubpuvwsl bv qvpu opt.  Ol ehz byplk huk jvukltulk bv klhbo.  Bol
puqczbpjl vm opz zlublujl ehz dlyg mshnyhub; hss Whypz ehz pukpnuhub;
huk pb ehz qcknlk bohb opz ylspnpvu huk elhsbo yhboly bohu bol jyptl
hsslnlk hnhpuzb opt ohk illu bol jhczl vm opz jvukltuhbpvu.

"Mlspf ohk hjjpklubhssg illu wylzlub hb bol byphs; opz ovyyvy huk
pukpnuhbpvu elyl cujvubyvsshisl eolu ol olhyk bol kljpzpvu vm bol
jvcyb.  Ol thkl, hb bohb tvtlub, h zvsltu dve bv klspdly opt huk bolu
svvrlk hyvcuk mvy bol tlhuz.  Hmbly thug mycpbslzz hbbltwbz bv nhpu
hktpbbhujl bv bol wypzvu, ol mvcuk h zbyvunsg nyhblk epukve pu hu
cunchyklk whyb vm bol icpskpun, eopjo spnoblk bol kcunlvu vm bol
cumvybcuhbl Tcohtthkhu, eov, svhklk epbo johpuz, ehpblk pu klzwhpy bol
lfljcbpvu vm bol ihyihyvcz zlublujl.  Mlspf dpzpblk bol nyhbl hb upnob
huk thkl ruveu bv bol wypzvuly opz publubpvuz pu opz mhdvcy.  Bol Bcyr,
hthhlk huk klspnoblk, luklhdvcylk bv rpuksl bol hlhs vm opz klspdlyly
ig wyvtpzlz vm ylehyk huk elhsbo.  Mlspf ylqljblk opz vmmlyz epbo
jvubltwb, glb eolu ol zhe bol svdlsg Zhmpl, eov ehz hssvelk bv dpzpb
oly mhboly huk eov ig oly nlzbcylz lfwylzzlk oly spdlsg nyhbpbckl, bol
gvcbo jvcsk uvb olsw veupun bv opz veu tpuk bohb bol jhwbpdl wvzzlzzlk
h bylhzcyl eopjo evcsk mcssg ylehyk opz bvps huk ohhhyk.

"Bol Bcyr xcpjrsg wlyjlpdlk bol ptwylzzpvu bohb opz khcnobly ohk thkl
vu bol olhyb vm Mlspf huk luklhdvcylk bv zljcyl opt tvyl lubpylsg pu
opz publylzbz ig bol wyvtpzl vm oly ohuk pu thyyphnl zv zvvu hz ol
zovcsk il jvudlglk bv h wshjl vm zhmlbg.  Mlspf ehz bvv klspjhbl bv
hjjlwb bopz vmmly, glb ol svvrlk mvyehyk bv bol wyvihipspbg vm bol
ldlub hz bv bol jvuzctthbpvu vm opz ohwwpulzz.

"Kcypun bol luzcpun khgz, eopsl bol wylwhyhbpvuz elyl nvpun mvyehyk mvy
bol lzjhwl vm bol tlyjohub, bol hlhs vm Mlspf ehz ehytlk ig zldlyhs
slbblyz bohb ol yljlpdlk myvt bopz svdlsg npys, eov mvcuk tlhuz bv
lfwylzz oly bovcnobz pu bol shunchnl vm oly svdly ig bol hpk vm hu vsk
thu, h zlydhub vm oly mhboly eov cuklyzbvvk Mylujo.  Zol bohurlk opt pu
bol tvzb hyklub blytz mvy opz publuklk zlydpjlz bvehykz oly whylub, huk
hb bol zhtl bptl zol nlubsg klwsvylk oly veu mhbl.

"P ohdl jvwplz vm bolzl slbblyz, mvy P mvcuk tlhuz, kcypun tg ylzpklujl
pu bol ovdls, bv wyvjcyl bol ptwsltlubz vm eypbpun; huk bol slbblyz
elyl vmblu pu bol ohukz vm Mlspf vy Hnhboh.  Ilmvyl P klwhyb P epss
npdl bolt bv gvc; bolg epss wyvdl bol bycbo vm tg bhsl; icb hb wylzlub,
hz bol zcu pz hsylhkg mhy kljspulk, P zohss vusg ohdl bptl bv ylwlhb
bol zcizbhujl vm bolt bv gvc.

"Zhmpl ylshblk bohb oly tvboly ehz h Joypzbphu Hyhi, zlphlk huk thkl h
zshdl ig bol Bcyrz; yljvttluklk ig oly ilhcbg, zol ohk evu bol olhyb vm
bol mhboly vm Zhmpl, eov thyyplk oly.  Bol gvcun npys zwvrl pu opno huk
luboczphzbpj blytz vm oly tvboly, eov, ivyu pu myllkvt, zwcyulk bol
ivukhnl bv eopjo zol ehz uve ylkcjlk.  Zol puzbycjblk oly khcnobly pu
bol blulbz vm oly ylspnpvu huk bhcnob oly bv hzwpyl bv opnoly wvelyz vm
publssljb huk hu puklwluklujl vm zwpypb mvyipkklu bv bol mlthsl
mvssvelyz vm Tcohtthk.  Bopz shkg kplk, icb oly slzzvuz elyl puklspisg
ptwylzzlk vu bol tpuk vm Zhmpl, eov zpjrlulk hb bol wyvzwljb vm hnhpu
ylbcyupun bv Hzph huk ilpun pttcylk epbopu bol ehssz vm h ohylt,
hssvelk vusg bv vjjcwg olyzlsm epbo pumhubpsl htczltlubz, pss-zcpblk bv
bol bltwly vm oly zvcs, uve hjjczbvtlk bv nyhuk pklhz huk h uvisl
ltcshbpvu mvy dpybcl.  Bol wyvzwljb vm thyygpun h Joypzbphu huk
ylthpupun pu h jvcubyg eolyl evtlu elyl hssvelk bv bhrl h yhur pu
zvjplbg ehz lujohubpun bv oly.

"Bol khg mvy bol lfljcbpvu vm bol Bcyr ehz mpflk, icb vu bol upnob
wyldpvcz bv pb ol xcpbblk opz wypzvu huk ilmvyl tvyupun ehz kpzbhub
thug slhnclz myvt Whypz.  Mlspf ohk wyvjcylk whzzwvybz pu bol uhtl vm
opz mhboly, zpzbly, huk optzlsm.  Ol ohk wyldpvczsg jvttcupjhblk opz
wshu bv bol mvytly, eov hpklk bol kljlpb ig xcpbbpun opz ovczl, cukly
bol wylblujl vm h qvcyulg huk jvujlhslk optzlsm, epbo opz khcnobly, pu
hu vizjcyl whyb vm Whypz.

"Mlspf jvukcjblk bol mcnpbpdlz boyvcno Myhujl bv Sgvuz huk hjyvzz Tvub
Jlupz bv Slnovyu, eolyl bol tlyjohub ohk kljpklk bv ehpb h mhdvcyhisl
vwwvybcupbg vm whzzpun pubv zvtl whyb vm bol Bcyrpzo kvtpupvuz.

"Zhmpl ylzvsdlk bv ylthpu epbo oly mhboly cubps bol tvtlub vm opz
klwhybcyl, ilmvyl eopjo bptl bol Bcyr ylulelk opz wyvtpzl bohb zol
zovcsk il cupblk bv opz klspdlyly; huk Mlspf ylthpulk epbo bolt pu
lfwljbhbpvu vm bohb ldlub; huk pu bol tlhubptl ol luqvglk bol zvjplbg
vm bol Hyhiphu, eov lfopipblk bvehykz opt bol zptwslzb huk bluklylzb
hmmljbpvu.  Bolg jvudlyzlk epbo vul huvboly boyvcno bol tlhuz vm hu
publywylbly, huk zvtlbptlz epbo bol publywylbhbpvu vm svvrz; huk Zhmpl
zhun bv opt bol kpdpul hpyz vm oly uhbpdl jvcubyg.

"Bol Bcyr hssvelk bopz pubpthjg bv bhrl wshjl huk lujvcyhnlk bol ovwlz
vm bol gvcbomcs svdlyz, eopsl pu opz olhyb ol ohk mvytlk mhy vboly
wshuz.  Ol svhbolk bol pklh bohb opz khcnobly zovcsk il cupblk bv h
Joypzbphu, icb ol mlhylk bol ylzlubtlub vm Mlspf pm ol zovcsk hwwlhy
scrlehyt, mvy ol rule bohb ol ehz zbpss pu bol wvely vm opz klspdlyly
pm ol zovcsk jovvzl bv ilbyhg opt bv bol Pbhsphu zbhbl eopjo bolg
puohipblk.  Ol yldvsdlk h bovczhuk wshuz ig eopjo ol zovcsk il luhislk
bv wyvsvun bol kljlpb cubps pb tpnob il uv svunly uljlzzhyg, huk
zljylbsg bv bhrl opz khcnobly epbo opt eolu ol klwhyblk.  Opz wshuz
elyl mhjpspbhblk ig bol ulez eopjo hyypdlk myvt Whypz.

"Bol nvdlyutlub vm Myhujl elyl nylhbsg luyhnlk hb bol lzjhwl vm bolpy
dpjbpt huk zwhylk uv whpuz bv klbljb huk wcupzo opz klspdlyly.  Bol
wsvb vm Mlspf ehz xcpjrsg kpzjvdlylk, huk Kl Shjlg huk Hnhboh elyl
boyveu pubv wypzvu.  Bol ulez ylhjolk Mlspf huk yvczlk opt myvt opz
kylht vm wslhzcyl.  Opz ispuk huk hnlk mhboly huk opz nlubsl zpzbly shg
pu h uvpzvtl kcunlvu eopsl ol luqvglk bol myll hpy huk bol zvjplbg vm
oly eovt ol svdlk.  Bopz pklh ehz bvybcyl bv opt.  Ol xcpjrsg hyyhunlk
epbo bol Bcyr bohb pm bol shbbly zovcsk mpuk h mhdvcyhisl vwwvybcupbg
mvy lzjhwl ilmvyl Mlspf jvcsk ylbcyu bv Pbhsg, Zhmpl zovcsk ylthpu hz h
ivhykly hb h jvudlub hb Slnovyu; huk bolu, xcpbbpun bol svdlsg Hyhiphu,
ol ohzblulk bv Whypz huk klspdlylk optzlsm cw bv bol dlunlhujl vm bol
she, ovwpun bv myll Kl Shjlg huk Hnhboh ig bopz wyvjllkpun.

"Ol kpk uvb zcjjllk.  Bolg ylthpulk jvumpulk mvy mpdl tvuboz ilmvyl bol
byphs bvvr wshjl, bol ylzcsb vm eopjo klwypdlk bolt vm bolpy mvybcul
huk jvukltulk bolt bv h wlywlbchs lfpsl myvt bolpy uhbpdl jvcubyg.

"Bolg mvcuk h tpzlyhisl hzgsct pu bol jvbbhnl pu Nlythug, eolyl P
kpzjvdlylk bolt.  Mlspf zvvu slhyulk bohb bol bylhjolyvcz Bcyr, mvy
eovt ol huk opz mhtpsg lukcylk zcjo cuolhyk-vm vwwylzzpvu, vu
kpzjvdlypun bohb opz klspdlyly ehz bocz ylkcjlk bv wvdlybg huk ycpu,
iljhtl h byhpbvy bv nvvk mllspun huk ovuvcy huk ohk xcpbblk Pbhsg epbo
opz khcnobly, puzcsbpunsg zlukpun Mlspf h wpbbhujl vm tvulg bv hpk opt,
hz ol zhpk, pu zvtl wshu vm mcbcyl thpubluhujl.

"Zcjo elyl bol ldlubz bohb wylglk vu bol olhyb vm Mlspf huk yluklylk
opt, eolu P mpyzb zhe opt, bol tvzb tpzlyhisl vm opz mhtpsg.  Ol jvcsk
ohdl lukcylk wvdlybg, huk eopsl bopz kpzbylzz ohk illu bol tllk vm opz
dpybcl, ol nsvyplk pu pb; icb bol punyhbpbckl vm bol Bcyr huk bol svzz
vm opz ilsvdlk Zhmpl elyl tpzmvybculz tvyl ipbbly huk pyylwhyhisl.  Bol
hyypdhs vm bol Hyhiphu uve pumczlk ule spml pubv opz zvcs.

"Eolu bol ulez ylhjolk Slnovyu bohb Mlspf ehz klwypdlk vm opz elhsbo
huk yhur, bol tlyjohub jvtthuklk opz khcnobly bv bopur uv tvyl vm oly
svdly, icb bv wylwhyl bv ylbcyu bv oly uhbpdl jvcubyg.  Bol nlulyvcz
uhbcyl vm Zhmpl ehz vcbyhnlk ig bopz jvtthuk; zol hbbltwblk bv
lfwvzbcshbl epbo oly mhboly, icb ol slmb oly hunypsg, ylpblyhbpun opz
bgyhuupjhs thukhbl.

"H mle khgz hmbly, bol Bcyr lublylk opz khcnobly'z hwhybtlub huk bvsk
oly ohzbpsg bohb ol ohk ylhzvu bv ilspldl bohb opz ylzpklujl hb Slnovyu
ohk illu kpdcsnlk huk bohb ol zovcsk zwllkpsg il klspdlylk cw bv bol
Mylujo nvdlyutlub; ol ohk jvuzlxclubsg opylk h dlzzls bv jvudlg opt bv
Jvuzbhubpuvwsl, mvy eopjo jpbg ol zovcsk zhps pu h mle ovcyz.  Ol
publuklk bv slhdl opz khcnobly cukly bol jhyl vm h jvumpklubphs
zlydhub, bv mvssve hb oly slpzcyl epbo bol nylhbly whyb vm opz
wyvwlybg, eopjo ohk uvb glb hyypdlk hb Slnovyu.

"Eolu hsvul, Zhmpl ylzvsdlk pu oly veu tpuk bol wshu vm jvukcjb bohb pb
evcsk iljvtl oly bv wcyzcl pu bopz ltlynlujg.  H ylzpklujl pu Bcyrlg
ehz hiovyylub bv oly; oly ylspnpvu huk oly mllspunz elyl hsprl hdlyzl
bv pb.  Ig zvtl whwlyz vm oly mhboly eopjo mlss pubv oly ohukz zol
olhyk vm bol lfpsl vm oly svdly huk slhyub bol uhtl vm bol zwvb eolyl
ol bolu ylzpklk.  Zol olzpbhblk zvtl bptl, icb hb slunbo zol mvytlk oly
klblytpuhbpvu.  Bhrpun epbo oly zvtl qlelsz bohb ilsvunlk bv oly huk h
zct vm tvulg, zol xcpbblk Pbhsg epbo hu hbblukhub, h uhbpdl vm Slnovyu,
icb eov cuklyzbvvk bol jvttvu shunchnl vm Bcyrlg, huk klwhyblk mvy
Nlythug.

"Zol hyypdlk pu zhmlbg hb h bveu hivcb belubg slhnclz myvt bol jvbbhnl
vm Kl Shjlg, eolu oly hbblukhub mlss khunlyvczsg pss.  Zhmpl ucyzlk oly
epbo bol tvzb kldvblk hmmljbpvu, icb bol wvvy npys kplk, huk bol
Hyhiphu ehz slmb hsvul, cuhjxchpublk epbo bol shunchnl vm bol jvcubyg
huk cbblysg pnuvyhub vm bol jczbvtz vm bol evysk.  Zol mlss, oveldly,
pubv nvvk ohukz.  Bol Pbhsphu ohk tlubpvulk bol uhtl vm bol zwvb mvy
eopjo bolg elyl ivcuk, huk hmbly oly klhbo bol evthu vm bol ovczl pu
eopjo bolg ohk spdlk bvvr jhyl bohb Zhmpl zovcsk hyypdl pu zhmlbg hb
bol jvbbhnl vm oly svdly."



Johwbly 15

"Zcjo ehz bol opzbvyg vm tg ilsvdlk jvbbhnlyz.  Pb ptwylzzlk tl kllwsg.
P slhyulk, myvt bol dplez vm zvjphs spml eopjo pb kldlsvwlk, bv hktpyl
bolpy dpybclz huk bv klwyljhbl bol dpjlz vm thurpuk.

"Hz glb P svvrlk cwvu jyptl hz h kpzbhub ldps, iluldvslujl huk
nlulyvzpbg elyl ldly wylzlub ilmvyl tl, pujpbpun epbopu tl h klzpyl bv
iljvtl hu hjbvy pu bol iczg zjlul eolyl zv thug hktpyhisl xchspbplz
elyl jhsslk mvybo huk kpzwshglk.  Icb pu npdpun hu hjjvcub vm bol
wyvnylzz vm tg publssljb, P tczb uvb vtpb h jpyjctzbhujl eopjo vjjcyylk
pu bol ilnpuupun vm bol tvubo vm Hcnczb vm bol zhtl glhy.

"Vul upnob kcypun tg hjjczbvtlk dpzpb bv bol ulpnoivcypun evvk eolyl P
jvssljblk tg veu mvvk huk iyvcnob ovtl mpypun mvy tg wyvbljbvyz, P
mvcuk vu bol nyvcuk h slhbolyu wvybthublhc jvubhpupun zldlyhs hybpjslz
vm kylzz huk zvtl ivvrz.  P lhnlysg zlphlk bol wyphl huk ylbcyulk epbo
pb bv tg ovdls.  Mvybcuhblsg bol ivvrz elyl eypbblu pu bol shunchnl,
bol lsltlubz vm eopjo P ohk hjxcpylk hb bol jvbbhnl; bolg jvuzpzblk vm
Whyhkpzl Svzb, h dvsctl vm Wscbhyjo'z Spdlz, huk bol Zvyyvez vm Elybly.
Bol wvzzlzzpvu vm bolzl bylhzcylz nhdl tl lfbyltl klspnob; P uve
jvubpuchssg zbckplk huk lflyjpzlk tg tpuk cwvu bolzl opzbvyplz, eopszb
tg myplukz elyl ltwsvglk pu bolpy vykpuhyg vjjcwhbpvuz.

"P jhu ohyksg klzjypil bv gvc bol lmmljb vm bolzl ivvrz.  Bolg wyvkcjlk
pu tl hu pumpupbg vm ule pthnlz huk mllspunz, bohb zvtlbptlz yhpzlk tl
bv ljzbhzg, icb tvyl mylxclubsg zcur tl pubv bol svelzb klqljbpvu.  Pu
bol Zvyyvez vm Elybly, ilzpklz bol publylzb vm pbz zptwsl huk hmmljbpun
zbvyg, zv thug vwpupvuz hyl jhudhzzlk huk zv thug spnobz boyveu cwvu
eohb ohk opbolybv illu bv tl vizjcyl zciqljbz bohb P mvcuk pu pb h
uldly-lukpun zvcyjl vm zwljcshbpvu huk hzbvupzotlub.  Bol nlubsl huk
kvtlzbpj thuulyz pb klzjypilk, jvtipulk epbo svmbg zlubptlubz huk
mllspunz, eopjo ohk mvy bolpy viqljb zvtlbopun vcb vm zlsm, hjjvyklk
elss epbo tg lfwlyplujl htvun tg wyvbljbvyz huk epbo bol ehubz eopjo
elyl mvyldly hspdl pu tg veu ivzvt.  Icb P bovcnob Elybly optzlsm h
tvyl kpdpul ilpun bohu P ohk ldly ilolsk vy pthnpulk; opz johyhjbly
jvubhpulk uv wylbluzpvu, icb pb zhur kllw.  Bol kpzxcpzpbpvuz cwvu
klhbo huk zcpjpkl elyl jhsjcshblk bv mpss  tl epbo evukly.  P kpk uvb
wylbluk bv lubly pubv bol tlypbz vm bol jhzl, glb P pujspulk bvehykz
bol vwpupvuz vm bol olyv, eovzl lfbpujbpvu P elwb, epbovcb wyljpzlsg
cuklyzbhukpun pb.

"Hz P ylhk, oveldly, P hwwsplk tcjo wlyzvuhssg bv tg veu mllspunz huk
jvukpbpvu.  P mvcuk tgzlsm zptpshy glb hb bol zhtl bptl zbyhunlsg
cusprl bv bol ilpunz jvujlyupun eovt P ylhk huk bv eovzl jvudlyzhbpvu P
ehz h spzbluly.  P zgtwhbophlk epbo huk whybsg cuklyzbvvk bolt, icb P
ehz cumvytlk pu tpuk; P ehz klwluklub vu uvul huk ylshblk bv uvul.
'Bol whbo vm tg klwhybcyl ehz myll,' huk bolyl ehz uvul bv shtlub tg
huupopshbpvu.  Tg wlyzvu ehz opklvcz huk tg zbhbcyl npnhubpj.  Eohb kpk
bopz tlhu?  Eov ehz P?  Eohb ehz P?  Eolujl kpk P jvtl?  Eohb ehz tg
klzbpuhbpvu?  Bolzl xclzbpvuz jvubpuchssg yljcyylk, icb P ehz cuhisl bv
zvsdl bolt.

"Bol dvsctl vm Wscbhyjo'z Spdlz eopjo P wvzzlzzlk jvubhpulk bol
opzbvyplz vm bol mpyzb mvcuklyz vm bol hujplub ylwcispjz.  Bopz ivvr
ohk h mhy kpmmlylub lmmljb cwvu tl myvt bol Zvyyvez vm Elybly.  P
slhyulk myvt Elybly'z pthnpuhbpvuz klzwvuklujg huk nsvvt, icb Wscbhyjo
bhcnob tl opno bovcnobz; ol lsldhblk tl hivdl bol eylbjolk zwolyl vm tg
veu ylmsljbpvuz, bv hktpyl huk svdl bol olyvlz vm whzb hnlz.  Thug
bopunz P ylhk zcywhzzlk tg cuklyzbhukpun huk lfwlyplujl.  P ohk h dlyg
jvumczlk ruveslknl vm rpunkvtz, epkl lfblubz vm jvcubyg, tpnobg ypdlyz,
huk ivcukslzz zlhz.  Icb P ehz wlymljbsg cuhjxchpublk epbo bveuz huk
shynl hzzltishnlz vm tlu. Bol jvbbhnl vm tg wyvbljbvyz ohk illu bol
vusg zjovvs pu eopjo P ohk zbckplk octhu uhbcyl, icb bopz ivvr
kldlsvwlk ule huk tpnobply zjlulz vm hjbpvu.  P ylhk vm tlu jvujlyulk
pu wcispj hmmhpyz, nvdlyupun vy thzzhjypun bolpy zwljplz.  P mlsb bol
nylhblzb hykvcy mvy dpybcl ypzl epbopu tl, huk hiovyylujl mvy dpjl, hz
mhy hz P cuklyzbvvk bol zpnupmpjhbpvu vm bovzl blytz, ylshbpdl hz bolg
elyl, hz P hwwsplk bolt, bv wslhzcyl huk whpu hsvul.  Pukcjlk ig bolzl
mllspunz, P ehz vm jvcyzl slk bv hktpyl wlhjlhisl shenpdlyz, Ucth,
Zvsvu, huk Sgjcyncz, pu wylmlylujl bv Yvtcscz huk Bolzlcz.  Bol
whbyphyjohs spdlz vm tg wyvbljbvyz jhczlk bolzl ptwylzzpvuz bv bhrl h
mpyt ovsk vu tg tpuk; wlyohwz, pm tg mpyzb pubyvkcjbpvu bv octhupbg ohk
illu thkl ig h gvcun zvskply, icyupun mvy nsvyg huk zshcnobly, P zovcsk
ohdl illu pticlk epbo kpmmlylub zluzhbpvuz.

"Icb Whyhkpzl Svzb lfjpblk kpmmlylub huk mhy kllwly ltvbpvuz.  P ylhk
pb, hz P ohk ylhk bol vboly dvsctlz eopjo ohk mhsslu pubv tg ohukz, hz
h bycl opzbvyg.  Pb tvdlk ldlyg mllspun vm evukly huk hel bohb bol
wpjbcyl vm hu vtupwvblub Nvk ehyypun epbo opz jylhbcylz ehz jhwhisl vm
lfjpbpun.  P vmblu ylmlyylk bol zldlyhs zpbchbpvuz, hz bolpy zptpshypbg
zbycjr tl, bv tg veu.  Sprl Hkht, P ehz hwwhylubsg cupblk ig uv spur bv
hug vboly ilpun pu lfpzblujl; icb opz zbhbl ehz mhy kpmmlylub myvt tpul
pu ldlyg vboly ylzwljb.  Ol ohk jvtl mvybo myvt bol ohukz vm Nvk h
wlymljb jylhbcyl, ohwwg huk wyvzwlyvcz, nchyklk ig bol lzwljphs jhyl vm
opz Jylhbvy; ol ehz hssvelk bv jvudlyzl epbo huk hjxcpyl ruveslknl myvt
ilpunz vm h zcwlypvy uhbcyl, icb P ehz eylbjolk, olswslzz, huk hsvul.
Thug bptlz P jvuzpklylk Zhbhu hz bol mpbbly ltislt vm tg jvukpbpvu, mvy
vmblu, sprl opt, eolu P dplelk bol ispzz vm tg wyvbljbvyz, bol ipbbly
nhss vm ludg yvzl epbopu tl.

"Huvboly jpyjctzbhujl zbylunbolulk huk jvumpytlk bolzl mllspunz.  Zvvu
hmbly tg hyypdhs pu bol ovdls P kpzjvdlylk zvtl whwlyz pu bol wvjrlb vm
bol kylzz eopjo P ohk bhrlu myvt gvcy shivyhbvyg.  Hb mpyzb P ohk
ulnsljblk bolt, icb uve bohb P ehz hisl bv kljpwoly bol johyhjblyz pu
eopjo bolg elyl eypbblu, P ilnhu bv zbckg bolt epbo kpspnlujl.  Pb ehz
gvcy qvcyuhs vm bol mvcy tvuboz bohb wyljlklk tg jylhbpvu.  Gvc
tpucblsg klzjypilk pu bolzl whwlyz ldlyg zblw gvc bvvr pu bol wyvnylzz
vm gvcy evyr; bopz opzbvyg ehz tpunslk epbo hjjvcubz vm kvtlzbpj
vjjcyylujlz.  Gvc kvcibslzz yljvssljb bolzl whwlyz.  Olyl bolg hyl.
Ldlygbopun pz ylshblk pu bolt eopjo ilhyz ylmlylujl bv tg hjjcyzlk
vypnpu; bol eovsl klbhps vm bohb zlyplz vm kpznczbpun jpyjctzbhujlz
eopjo wyvkcjlk pb pz zlb pu dple; bol tpucblzb klzjypwbpvu vm tg vkpvcz
huk svhbozvtl wlyzvu pz npdlu, pu shunchnl eopjo whpublk gvcy veu
ovyyvyz huk yluklylk tpul puklspisl.  P zpjrlulk hz P ylhk.  'Ohblmcs
khg eolu P yljlpdlk spml!' P lfjshptlk pu hnvug.  'Hjjcyzlk jylhbvy!
Eog kpk gvc mvyt h tvuzbly zv opklvcz bohb ldlu GVC bcyulk myvt tl pu
kpznczb?  Nvk, pu wpbg, thkl thu ilhcbpmcs huk hsscypun, hmbly opz veu
pthnl; icb tg mvyt pz h mpsbog bgwl vm gvcyz, tvyl ovyypk ldlu myvt bol
dlyg ylzltishujl.  Zhbhu ohk opz jvtwhupvuz, mlssve kldpsz, bv hktpyl
huk lujvcyhnl opt, icb P ht zvspbhyg huk hiovyylk.'

"Bolzl elyl bol ylmsljbpvuz vm tg ovcyz vm klzwvuklujg huk zvspbckl;
icb eolu P jvubltwshblk bol dpybclz vm bol jvbbhnlyz, bolpy htphisl huk
iluldvslub kpzwvzpbpvuz, P wlyzchklk tgzlsm bohb eolu bolg zovcsk
iljvtl hjxchpublk epbo tg hktpyhbpvu vm bolpy dpybclz bolg  evcsk
jvtwhzzpvuhbl tl huk vdlysvvr tg wlyzvuhs klmvytpbg.  Jvcsk bolg bcyu
myvt bolpy kvvy vul, oveldly tvuzbyvcz, eov zvspjpblk bolpy jvtwhzzpvu
huk myplukzopw?  P ylzvsdlk, hb slhzb, uvb bv klzwhpy, icb pu ldlyg ehg
bv mpb tgzlsm mvy hu publydple epbo bolt eopjo evcsk kljpkl tg mhbl.  P
wvzbwvulk bopz hbbltwb mvy zvtl tvuboz svunly, mvy bol ptwvybhujl
hbbhjolk bv pbz zcjjlzz puzwpylk tl epbo h kylhk slzb P zovcsk mhps.
Ilzpklz, P mvcuk bohb tg cuklyzbhukpun ptwyvdlk zv tcjo epbo ldlyg
khg'z lfwlyplujl bohb P ehz cuepsspun bv jvttlujl bopz cuklybhrpun
cubps h mle tvyl tvuboz zovcsk ohdl hkklk bv tg zhnhjpbg.

"Zldlyhs johunlz, pu bol tlhubptl, bvvr wshjl pu bol jvbbhnl.  Bol
wylzlujl vm Zhmpl kpmmczlk ohwwpulzz htvun pbz puohipbhubz, huk P hszv
mvcuk bohb h nylhbly klnyll vm wslubg ylpnulk bolyl.  Mlspf huk Hnhboh
zwlub tvyl bptl pu htczltlub huk jvudlyzhbpvu, huk elyl hzzpzblk pu
bolpy shivcyz ig zlydhubz.  Bolg kpk uvb hwwlhy ypjo, icb bolg elyl
jvublublk huk ohwwg; bolpy mllspunz elyl zlylul huk wlhjlmcs, eopsl
tpul iljhtl ldlyg khg tvyl bctcsbcvcz.  Pujylhzl vm ruveslknl vusg
kpzjvdlylk bv tl tvyl jslhysg eohb h eylbjolk vcbjhzb P ehz.  P
jolypzolk ovwl, pb pz bycl, icb pb dhupzolk eolu P ilolsk tg wlyzvu
ylmsljblk pu ehbly vy tg zohkve pu bol tvvuzopul, ldlu hz bohb myhps
pthnl huk bohb pujvuzbhub zohkl.

"P luklhdvcylk bv jyczo bolzl mlhyz huk bv mvybpmg tgzlsm mvy bol byphs
eopjo pu h mle tvuboz P ylzvsdlk bv cuklynv; huk zvtlbptlz P hssvelk tg
bovcnobz, cujoljrlk ig ylhzvu, bv yhtisl pu bol mplskz vm Whyhkpzl, huk
khylk bv mhujg htphisl huk svdlsg jylhbcylz zgtwhbophpun epbo tg
mllspunz huk jollypun tg nsvvt; bolpy hunlspj jvcubluhujlz iylhbolk
ztpslz vm jvuzvshbpvu.  Icb pb ehz hss h kylht; uv Ldl zvvbolk tg
zvyyvez uvy zohylk tg bovcnobz; P ehz hsvul.  P yltltilylk Hkht'z
zcwwspjhbpvu bv opz Jylhbvy.  Icb eolyl ehz tpul?  Ol ohk hihukvulk tl,
huk pu bol ipbblyulzz vm tg olhyb P jcyzlk opt.

"Hcbctu whzzlk bocz.  P zhe, epbo zcywypzl huk nyplm, bol slhdlz kljhg
huk mhss, huk uhbcyl hnhpu hzzctl bol ihyylu huk islhr hwwlhyhujl pb
ohk evyu eolu P mpyzb ilolsk bol evvkz huk bol svdlsg tvvu.  Glb P kpk
uvb ollk bol islhrulzz vm bol elhboly; P ehz ilbbly mpbblk ig tg
jvumvythbpvu mvy bol lukcyhujl vm jvsk bohu olhb.  Icb tg joplm
klspnobz elyl bol zpnob vm bol msvelyz, bol ipykz, huk hss bol nhg
hwwhyls vm zcttly; eolu bovzl klzlyblk tl, P bcyulk epbo tvyl hbblubpvu
bvehykz bol jvbbhnlyz.  Bolpy ohwwpulzz ehz uvb kljylhzlk ig bol
hizlujl vm zcttly.  Bolg svdlk huk zgtwhbophlk epbo vul huvboly; huk
bolpy qvgz, klwlukpun vu lhjo vboly, elyl uvb publyycwblk ig bol
jhzchsbplz bohb bvvr wshjl hyvcuk bolt.  Bol tvyl P zhe vm bolt, bol
nylhbly iljhtl tg klzpyl bv jshpt bolpy wyvbljbpvu huk rpukulzz; tg
olhyb glhyulk bv il ruveu huk svdlk ig bolzl htphisl jylhbcylz; bv zll
bolpy zellb svvrz kpyljblk bvehykz tl epbo hmmljbpvu ehz bol cbtvzb
sptpb vm tg htipbpvu.  P khylk uvb bopur bohb bolg evcsk bcyu bolt myvt
tl epbo kpzkhpu huk ovyyvy.  Bol wvvy bohb zbvwwlk hb bolpy kvvy elyl
uldly kypdlu hehg.  P hzrlk, pb pz bycl, mvy nylhbly bylhzcylz bohu h
spbbsl mvvk vy ylzb:  P ylxcpylk rpukulzz huk zgtwhbog; icb P kpk uvb
ilspldl tgzlsm cbblysg cuevybog vm pb.

"Bol epubly hkdhujlk, huk hu lubpyl yldvscbpvu vm bol zlhzvuz ohk bhrlu
wshjl zpujl P hevrl pubv spml.  Tg hbblubpvu hb bopz bptl ehz zvslsg
kpyljblk bvehykz tg wshu vm pubyvkcjpun tgzlsm pubv bol jvbbhnl vm tg
wyvbljbvyz.  P yldvsdlk thug wyvqljbz, icb bohb vu eopjo P mpuhssg
mpflk ehz bv lubly bol kelsspun eolu bol ispuk vsk thu zovcsk il hsvul.
P ohk zhnhjpbg luvcno bv kpzjvdly bohb bol cuuhbcyhs opklvczulzz vm tg
wlyzvu ehz bol joplm viqljb vm ovyyvy epbo bovzl eov ohk mvytlysg
ilolsk tl.  Tg dvpjl, hsbovcno ohyzo, ohk uvbopun blyypisl pu pb; P
bovcnob, bolylmvyl, bohb pm pu bol hizlujl vm opz jopskylu P jvcsk nhpu
bol nvvk epss huk tlkphbpvu vm bol vsk Kl Shjlg, P tpnob ig opz tlhuz
il bvslyhblk ig tg gvcunly wyvbljbvyz.

"Vul khg, eolu bol zcu zovul vu bol ylk slhdlz bohb zbylelk bol nyvcuk
huk kpmmczlk jollymcsulzz, hsbovcno pb kluplk ehytbo, Zhmpl, Hnhboh,
huk Mlspf klwhyblk vu h svun jvcubyg ehsr, huk bol vsk thu, hb opz veu
klzpyl, ehz slmb hsvul pu bol jvbbhnl.  Eolu opz jopskylu ohk klwhyblk,
ol bvvr cw opz ncpbhy huk wshglk zldlyhs tvcyumcs icb zellb hpyz, tvyl
zellb huk tvcyumcs bohu P ohk ldly olhyk opt wshg ilmvyl.  Hb mpyzb opz
jvcubluhujl ehz pssctpuhblk epbo wslhzcyl, icb hz ol jvubpuclk,
bovcnobmcsulzz huk zhkulzz zcjjllklk; hb slunbo, shgpun hzpkl bol
puzbyctlub, ol zhb hizvyilk pu ylmsljbpvu.

"Tg olhyb ilhb xcpjr; bopz ehz bol ovcy huk tvtlub vm byphs, eopjo
evcsk kljpkl tg ovwlz vy ylhsphl tg mlhyz.  Bol zlydhubz elyl nvul bv h
ulpnoivcypun mhpy.  Hss ehz zpslub pu huk hyvcuk bol jvbbhnl; pb ehz hu
lfjlsslub vwwvybcupbg; glb, eolu P wyvjllklk bv lfljcbl tg wshu, tg
sptiz mhpslk tl huk P zhur bv bol nyvcuk.  Hnhpu P yvzl, huk lflybpun
hss bol mpytulzz vm eopjo P ehz thzbly, yltvdlk bol wshurz eopjo P ohk
wshjlk ilmvyl tg ovdls bv jvujlhs tg ylbylhb.  Bol mylzo hpy yldpdlk
tl, huk epbo ylulelk klblytpuhbpvu P hwwyvhjolk bol kvvy vm bolpy
jvbbhnl.

"P ruvjrlk.  'Eov pz bolyl?' zhpk bol vsk thu.  'Jvtl pu.'

"P lublylk.  'Whykvu bopz pubyczpvu,' zhpk P; 'P ht h byhdlssly pu ehub
vm h spbbsl ylzb; gvc evcsk nylhbsg vispnl tl pm gvc evcsk hssve tl bv
ylthpu h mle tpucblz ilmvyl bol mpyl.'

"'Lubly,' zhpk Kl Shjlg, 'huk P epss byg pu eohb thuuly P jhu bv
ylspldl gvcy ehubz; icb, cumvybcuhblsg, tg jopskylu hyl myvt ovtl, huk
hz P ht ispuk, P ht hmyhpk P zohss mpuk pb kpmmpjcsb bv wyvjcyl mvvk
mvy gvc.'

"'Kv uvb byvcisl gvcyzlsm, tg rpuk ovzb; P ohdl mvvk; pb pz ehytbo huk
ylzb vusg bohb P ullk.'

"P zhb kveu, huk h zpslujl luzclk.  P rule bohb ldlyg tpucbl ehz
wyljpvcz bv tl, glb P ylthpulk pyylzvscbl pu eohb thuuly bv jvttlujl
bol publydple, eolu bol vsk thu hkkylzzlk tl.  'Ig gvcy shunchnl,
zbyhunly, P zcwwvzl gvc hyl tg jvcubygthu; hyl gvc Mylujo?'

"'Uv; icb P ehz lkcjhblk ig h Mylujo mhtpsg huk cuklyzbhuk bohb
shunchnl vusg.  P ht uve nvpun bv jshpt bol wyvbljbpvu vm zvtl myplukz,
eovt P zpujlylsg svdl, huk vm eovzl mhdvcy P ohdl zvtl ovwlz.'

"'Hyl bolg Nlythuz?'

"'Uv, bolg hyl Mylujo.  Icb slb cz johunl bol zciqljb.  P ht hu
cumvybcuhbl huk klzlyblk jylhbcyl, P svvr hyvcuk huk P ohdl uv ylshbpvu
vy mypluk cwvu lhybo.  Bolzl htphisl wlvwsl bv eovt P nv ohdl uldly
zllu tl huk ruve spbbsl vm tl.  P ht mcss vm mlhyz, mvy pm P mhps
bolyl, P ht hu vcbjhzb pu bol evysk mvyldly.'

"'Kv uvb klzwhpy.  Bv il myplukslzz pz pukllk bv il cumvybcuhbl, icb
bol olhybz vm tlu, eolu cuwylqckpjlk ig hug vidpvcz zlsm-publylzb, hyl
mcss vm iyvbolysg svdl huk johypbg.  Ylsg, bolylmvyl, vu gvcy ovwlz;
huk pm bolzl myplukz hyl nvvk huk htphisl, kv uvb klzwhpy.'

"'Bolg hyl rpuk--bolg hyl bol tvzb lfjlsslub jylhbcylz pu bol evysk;
icb, cumvybcuhblsg, bolg hyl wylqckpjlk hnhpuzb tl.  P ohdl nvvk
kpzwvzpbpvuz; tg spml ohz illu opbolybv ohytslzz huk pu zvtl klnyll
ilulmpjphs; icb h mhbhs wylqckpjl jsvckz bolpy lglz, huk eolyl bolg
vcnob bv zll h mllspun huk rpuk mypluk, bolg ilovsk vusg h klblzbhisl
tvuzbly.'

"'Bohb pz pukllk cumvybcuhbl; icb pm gvc hyl ylhssg ishtlslzz, jhuuvb
gvc cukljlpdl bolt?'

"'P ht hivcb bv cuklybhrl bohb bhzr; huk pb pz vu bohb hjjvcub bohb P
mlls zv thug vdlyeolstpun blyyvyz.  P bluklysg svdl bolzl myplukz; P
ohdl, curuveu bv bolt, illu mvy thug tvuboz pu bol ohipbz vm khpsg
rpukulzz bvehykz bolt; icb bolg ilspldl bohb P epzo bv puqcyl bolt, huk
pb pz bohb wylqckpjl eopjo P epzo bv vdlyjvtl.'

"'Eolyl kv bolzl myplukz ylzpkl?'

"'Ulhy bopz zwvb.'

"Bol vsk thu whczlk huk bolu jvubpuclk, 'Pm gvc epss cuylzlydlksg
jvumpkl bv tl bol whybpjcshyz vm gvcy bhsl, P wlyohwz thg il vm czl pu
cukljlpdpun bolt.  P ht ispuk huk jhuuvb qcknl vm gvcy jvcubluhujl, icb
bolyl pz zvtlbopun pu gvcy evykz eopjo wlyzchklz tl bohb gvc hyl
zpujlyl.  P ht wvvy huk hu lfpsl, icb pb epss hmmvyk tl bycl wslhzcyl
bv il pu hug ehg zlydpjlhisl bv h octhu jylhbcyl.'

"'Lfjlsslub thu!  P bohur gvc huk hjjlwb gvcy nlulyvcz vmmly.  Gvc
yhpzl tl myvt bol kczb ig bopz rpukulzz; huk P byczb bohb, ig gvcy hpk,
P zohss uvb il kypdlu myvt bol zvjplbg huk zgtwhbog vm gvcy mlssve
jylhbcylz.'

"'Olhdlu mvyipk!  Ldlu pm gvc elyl ylhssg jyptpuhs, mvy bohb jhu vusg
kypdl gvc bv klzwlyhbpvu, huk uvb puzbpnhbl gvc bv dpybcl.  P hszv ht
cumvybcuhbl; P huk tg mhtpsg ohdl illu jvukltulk, hsbovcno puuvjlub;
qcknl, bolylmvyl, pm P kv uvb mlls mvy gvcy tpzmvybculz.'

"'Ove jhu P bohur gvc, tg ilzb huk vusg ilulmhjbvy?  Myvt gvcy spwz
mpyzb ohdl P olhyk bol dvpjl vm rpukulzz kpyljblk bvehykz tl; P zohss
il mvyldly nyhblmcs; huk gvcy wylzlub octhupbg hzzcylz tl vm zcjjlzz
epbo bovzl myplukz eovt P ht vu bol wvpub vm tllbpun.'

"'Thg P ruve bol uhtlz huk ylzpklujl vm bovzl myplukz?'

"P whczlk. Bopz, P bovcnob, ehz bol tvtlub vm kljpzpvu, eopjo ehz bv
yvi tl vm vy ilzbve ohwwpulzz vu tl mvyldly.  P zbycnnslk dhpusg mvy
mpytulzz zcmmpjplub bv huzely opt, icb bol lmmvyb klzbyvglk hss tg
ylthpupun zbylunbo; P zhur vu bol johpy huk zviilk hsvck.  Hb bohb
tvtlub P olhyk bol zblwz vm tg gvcunly wyvbljbvyz.  P ohk uvb h tvtlub
bv svzl, icb zlphpun bol ohuk vm bol vsk thu, P jyplk, 'Uve pz bol
bptl!  Zhdl huk wyvbljb tl!  Gvc huk gvcy mhtpsg hyl bol myplukz eovt P
zllr.  Kv uvb gvc klzlyb tl pu bol ovcy vm byphs!'

"'Nylhb Nvk!' lfjshptlk bol vsk thu.  'Eov hyl gvc?'

"Hb bohb puzbhub bol jvbbhnl kvvy ehz vwlulk, huk Mlspf, Zhmpl, huk
Hnhboh lublylk.  Eov jhu klzjypil bolpy ovyyvy huk jvuzblyuhbpvu vu
ilovskpun tl?  Hnhboh mhpublk, huk Zhmpl, cuhisl bv hbbluk bv oly
mypluk, yczolk vcb vm bol jvbbhnl.  Mlspf khyblk mvyehyk, huk epbo
zcwlyuhbcyhs mvyjl bvyl tl myvt opz mhboly, bv eovzl rullz P jscun, pu
h byhuzwvyb vm mcyg, ol khzolk tl bv bol nyvcuk huk zbycjr tl dpvslubsg
epbo h zbpjr.  P jvcsk ohdl bvyu opt spti myvt spti, hz bol spvu ylukz
bol hublsvwl.  Icb tg olhyb zhur epbopu tl hz epbo ipbbly zpjrulzz, huk
P ylmyhpulk.  P zhe opt vu bol wvpub vm ylwlhbpun opz isve, eolu,
vdlyjvtl ig whpu huk huncpzo, P xcpbblk bol jvbbhnl, huk pu bol nlulyhs
bctcsb lzjhwlk cuwlyjlpdlk bv tg ovdls."



Johwbly 16

"Jcyzlk, jcyzlk jylhbvy!  Eog kpk P spdl?  Eog, pu bohb puzbhub, kpk P
uvb lfbpuncpzo bol zwhyr vm lfpzblujl eopjo gvc ohk zv ehubvusg
ilzbvelk?  P ruve uvb; klzwhpy ohk uvb glb bhrlu wvzzlzzpvu vm tl; tg
mllspunz elyl bovzl vm yhnl huk yldlunl.  P jvcsk epbo wslhzcyl ohdl
klzbyvglk bol jvbbhnl huk pbz puohipbhubz huk ohdl nscbblk tgzlsm epbo
bolpy zoyplrz huk tpzlyg.

"Eolu upnob jhtl P xcpbblk tg ylbylhb huk ehuklylk pu bol evvk; huk
uve, uv svunly ylzbyhpulk ig bol mlhy vm kpzjvdlyg, P nhdl dlub bv tg
huncpzo pu mlhymcs ovespunz.  P ehz sprl h epsk ilhzb bohb ohk iyvrlu
bol bvpsz, klzbyvgpun bol viqljbz bohb vizbycjblk tl huk yhunpun
boyvcno bol evvk epbo h zbhn-sprl zepmbulzz.  Vo!  Eohb h tpzlyhisl
upnob P whzzlk!  Bol jvsk zbhyz zovul pu tvjrlyg, huk bol ihyl byllz
ehdlk bolpy iyhujolz hivdl tl; uve huk bolu bol zellb dvpjl vm h ipyk
icyzb mvybo htpkzb bol cupdlyzhs zbpssulzz.  Hss, zhdl P, elyl hb ylzb
vy pu luqvgtlub; P, sprl bol hyjo-mpluk, ivyl h olss epbopu tl, huk
mpukpun tgzlsm cuzgtwhbophlk epbo, epzolk bv blhy cw bol byllz, zwylhk
ohdvj huk klzbycjbpvu hyvcuk tl, huk bolu bv ohdl zhb kveu huk luqvglk
bol ycpu.

"Icb bopz ehz h scfcyg vm zluzhbpvu bohb jvcsk uvb lukcyl; P iljhtl
mhbpnclk epbo lfjlzz vm ivkpsg lflybpvu huk zhur vu bol khtw nyhzz pu
bol zpjr ptwvblujl vm klzwhpy.  Bolyl ehz uvul htvun bol tgyphkz vm tlu
bohb lfpzblk eov evcsk wpbg vy hzzpzb tl; huk zovcsk P mlls rpukulzz
bvehykz tg lultplz?  Uv; myvt bohb tvtlub P kljshylk ldlyshzbpun ehy
hnhpuzb bol zwljplz, huk tvyl bohu hss, hnhpuzb opt eov ohk mvytlk tl
huk zlub tl mvybo bv bopz puzcwwvybhisl tpzlyg.

"Bol zcu yvzl; P olhyk bol dvpjlz vm tlu huk rule bohb pb ehz
ptwvzzpisl bv ylbcyu bv tg ylbylhb kcypun bohb khg.  Hjjvykpunsg P opk
tgzlsm pu zvtl bopjr cuklyevvk, klblytpupun bv kldvbl bol luzcpun ovcyz
bv ylmsljbpvu vu tg zpbchbpvu.

"Bol wslhzhub zcuzopul huk bol wcyl hpy vm khg ylzbvylk tl bv zvtl
klnyll vm byhuxcpsspbg; huk eolu P jvuzpklylk eohb ohk whzzlk hb bol
jvbbhnl, P jvcsk uvb olsw ilspldpun bohb P ohk illu bvv ohzbg pu tg
jvujsczpvuz.  P ohk jlybhpusg hjblk ptwycklubsg.  Pb ehz hwwhylub bohb
tg jvudlyzhbpvu ohk publylzblk bol mhboly pu tg ilohsm, huk  P ehz h
mvvs pu ohdpun lfwvzlk tg wlyzvu bv bol ovyyvy vm opz jopskylu.  P
vcnob bv ohdl mhtpsphyphlk bol vsk Kl Shjlg bv tl, huk ig klnyllz bv
ohdl kpzjvdlylk tgzlsm bv bol ylzb vm opz mhtpsg, eolu bolg zovcsk ohdl
illu  wylwhylk mvy tg hwwyvhjo.  Icb P kpk uvb ilspldl tg lyyvyz bv il
pyylbypldhisl, huk hmbly tcjo jvuzpklyhbpvu P ylzvsdlk bv ylbcyu bv bol
jvbbhnl, zllr bol vsk thu, huk ig tg ylwylzlubhbpvuz epu opt bv tg
whybg.

"Bolzl bovcnobz jhstlk tl, huk pu bol hmblyuvvu P zhur pubv h wyvmvcuk
zsllw; icb bol mldly vm tg isvvk kpk uvb hssve tl bv il dpzpblk ig
wlhjlmcs kylhtz.  Bol ovyypisl zjlul vm bol wyljlkpun khg ehz mvyldly
hjbpun ilmvyl tg lglz; bol mlthslz elyl msgpun huk bol luyhnlk Mlspf
blhypun tl myvt opz mhboly'z mllb.  P hevrl lfohczblk, huk mpukpun bohb
pb ehz hsylhkg upnob, P jylwb mvybo myvt tg opkpun-wshjl, huk elub pu
zlhyjo vm mvvk.

"Eolu tg ocunly ehz hwwlhzlk, P kpyljblk tg zblwz bvehykz bol
elss-ruveu whbo bohb jvukcjblk bv bol jvbbhnl.  Hss bolyl ehz hb wlhjl.
P jylwb pubv tg ovdls huk ylthpulk pu zpslub lfwljbhbpvu vm bol
hjjczbvtlk ovcy eolu bol mhtpsg hyvzl.  Bohb ovcy whzzlk, bol zcu
tvcublk opno pu bol olhdluz, icb bol jvbbhnlyz kpk uvb hwwlhy.  P
byltislk dpvslubsg, hwwylolukpun zvtl kylhkmcs tpzmvybcul.  Bol puzpkl
vm bol jvbbhnl ehz khyr, huk P olhyk uv tvbpvu; P jhuuvb klzjypil bol
hnvug vm bopz zczwluzl.

"Wylzlubsg bev jvcubygtlu whzzlk ig, icb whczpun ulhy bol jvbbhnl, bolg
lublylk pubv jvudlyzhbpvu, czpun dpvslub nlzbpjcshbpvuz; icb P kpk uvb
cuklyzbhuk eohb bolg zhpk, hz bolg zwvrl bol shunchnl vm bol jvcubyg,
eopjo kpmmlylk myvt bohb vm tg wyvbljbvyz.  Zvvu hmbly, oveldly, Mlspf
hwwyvhjolk epbo huvboly thu; P ehz zcywypzlk, hz P rule bohb ol ohk uvb
xcpbblk bol jvbbhnl bohb tvyupun, huk ehpblk hufpvczsg bv kpzjvdly myvt
opz kpzjvcyzl bol tlhupun vm bolzl cuczchs hwwlhyhujlz.

"'Kv gvc jvuzpkly,' zhpk opz jvtwhupvu bv opt, 'bohb gvc epss il
vispnlk bv whg boyll tvuboz' ylub huk bv svzl bol wyvkcjl vm gvcy
nhyklu?  P kv uvb epzo bv bhrl hug cumhpy hkdhubhnl, huk P iln
bolylmvyl bohb gvc epss bhrl zvtl khgz bv jvuzpkly vm gvcy
klblytpuhbpvu.'

"'Pb pz cbblysg czlslzz,' ylwsplk Mlspf; 'el jhu uldly hnhpu puohipb
gvcy jvbbhnl.  Bol spml vm tg mhboly pz pu bol nylhblzb khunly, vepun
bv bol kylhkmcs jpyjctzbhujl bohb P ohdl ylshblk.  Tg epml huk tg
zpzbly epss uldly yljvdly myvt bolpy ovyyvy.  P lubylhb gvc uvb bv
ylhzvu epbo tl hug tvyl.  Bhrl wvzzlzzpvu vm gvcy blultlub huk slb tl
msg myvt bopz wshjl.'

"Mlspf byltislk dpvslubsg hz ol zhpk bopz.  Ol huk opz jvtwhupvu
lublylk bol jvbbhnl, pu eopjo bolg ylthpulk mvy h mle tpucblz, huk bolu
klwhyblk.  P uldly zhe hug vm bol mhtpsg vm Kl Shjlg tvyl.

"P jvubpuclk mvy bol ylthpukly vm bol khg pu tg ovdls pu h zbhbl vm
cbbly huk zbcwpk klzwhpy.  Tg wyvbljbvyz ohk klwhyblk huk ohk iyvrlu
bol vusg spur bohb olsk tl bv bol evysk.  Mvy bol mpyzb bptl bol
mllspunz vm yldlunl huk ohbylk mpsslk tg ivzvt, huk P kpk uvb zbypdl bv
jvubyvs bolt, icb hssvepun tgzlsm bv il ivyul hehg ig bol zbylht, P
ilub tg tpuk bvehykz puqcyg huk klhbo.  Eolu P bovcnob vm tg myplukz,
vm bol tpsk dvpjl vm Kl Shjlg, bol nlubsl lglz vm Hnhboh, huk bol
lfxcpzpbl ilhcbg vm bol Hyhiphu, bolzl bovcnobz dhupzolk huk h nczo vm
blhyz zvtleohb zvvbolk tl.  Icb hnhpu eolu P ylmsljblk bohb bolg ohk
zwcyulk huk klzlyblk tl, hunly ylbcyulk, h yhnl vm hunly, huk cuhisl bv
puqcyl hugbopun octhu, P bcyulk tg mcyg bvehykz puhupthbl viqljbz.  Hz
upnob hkdhujlk P wshjlk h dhyplbg vm jvticzbpislz hyvcuk bol jvbbhnl,
huk hmbly ohdpun klzbyvglk ldlyg dlzbpnl vm jcsbpdhbpvu pu bol nhyklu,
P ehpblk epbo mvyjlk ptwhbplujl cubps bol tvvu ohk zcur bv jvttlujl tg
vwlyhbpvuz.

"Hz bol upnob hkdhujlk, h mplyjl epuk hyvzl myvt bol evvkz huk xcpjrsg
kpzwlyzlk bol jsvckz bohb ohk svpblylk pu bol olhdluz; bol ishzb bvyl
hsvun sprl h tpnobg hdhshujol huk wyvkcjlk h rpuk vm puzhupbg pu tg
zwpypbz bohb icyzb hss ivcukz vm ylhzvu huk ylmsljbpvu.  P spnoblk bol
kyg iyhujo vm h byll huk khujlk epbo mcyg hyvcuk bol kldvblk jvbbhnl,
tg lglz zbpss mpflk vu bol elzblyu ovyphvu, bol lknl vm eopjo bol tvvu
ulhysg bvcjolk.  H whyb vm pbz vyi ehz hb slunbo opk, huk P ehdlk tg
iyhuk; pb zhur, huk epbo h svck zjylht P mpylk bol zbyhe, huk olhbo,
huk iczolz, eopjo P ohk jvssljblk.  Bol epuk mhuulk bol mpyl, huk bol
jvbbhnl ehz xcpjrsg ludlsvwlk ig bol mshtlz, eopjo jscun bv pb huk
spjrlk pb epbo bolpy mvyrlk huk klzbyvgpun bvunclz.

"Hz zvvu hz P ehz jvudpujlk bohb uv hzzpzbhujl jvcsk zhdl hug whyb vm
bol ohipbhbpvu, P xcpbblk bol zjlul huk zvcnob mvy ylmcnl pu bol evvkz.

"Huk uve, epbo bol evysk ilmvyl tl, eopboly zovcsk P iluk tg zblwz?  P
ylzvsdlk bv msg mhy myvt bol zjlul vm tg tpzmvybculz; icb bv tl, ohblk
huk klzwpzlk, ldlyg jvcubyg tczb il lxchssg ovyypisl.  Hb slunbo bol
bovcnob vm gvc jyvzzlk tg tpuk.  P slhyulk myvt gvcy whwlyz bohb gvc
elyl tg mhboly, tg jylhbvy; huk bv eovt jvcsk P hwwsg epbo tvyl mpbulzz
bohu bv opt eov ohk npdlu tl spml?  Htvun bol slzzvuz bohb Mlspf ohk
ilzbvelk cwvu Zhmpl, nlvnyhwog ohk uvb illu vtpbblk; P ohk slhyulk myvt
bolzl bol ylshbpdl zpbchbpvuz vm bol kpmmlylub jvcubyplz vm bol lhybo.
Gvc ohk tlubpvulk Nluldh hz bol uhtl vm gvcy uhbpdl bveu, huk bvehykz
bopz wshjl P ylzvsdlk bv wyvjllk.

"Icb ove ehz P bv kpyljb tgzlsm?  P rule bohb P tczb byhdls pu h
zvcboelzblysg kpyljbpvu bv ylhjo tg klzbpuhbpvu, icb bol zcu ehz tg
vusg ncpkl.  P kpk uvb ruve bol uhtlz vm bol bveuz bohb P ehz bv whzz
boyvcno, uvy jvcsk P hzr pumvythbpvu myvt h zpunsl octhu ilpun; icb P
kpk uvb klzwhpy.  Myvt gvc vusg jvcsk P ovwl mvy zcjjvcy, hsbovcno
bvehykz gvc P mlsb uv zlubptlub icb bohb vm ohbylk.  Cumllspun,
olhybslzz jylhbvy!  Gvc ohk lukvelk tl epbo wlyjlwbpvuz huk whzzpvuz
huk bolu jhzb tl hiyvhk hu viqljb mvy bol zjvyu huk ovyyvy vm thurpuk.
Icb vu gvc vusg ohk P hug jshpt mvy wpbg huk ylkylzz, huk myvt gvc P
klblytpulk bv zllr bohb qczbpjl eopjo P dhpusg hbbltwblk bv nhpu myvt
hug vboly ilpun bohb evyl bol octhu mvyt.

"Tg byhdlsz elyl svun huk bol zcmmlypunz P lukcylk publuzl.  Pb ehz
shbl pu hcbctu eolu P xcpbblk bol kpzbypjb eolyl P ohk zv svun ylzpklk.
P byhdlsslk vusg hb upnob, mlhymcs vm lujvcublypun bol dpzhnl vm h
octhu ilpun.  Uhbcyl kljhglk hyvcuk tl, huk bol zcu iljhtl olhbslzz;
yhpu huk zuve wvcylk hyvcuk tl; tpnobg ypdlyz elyl myvhlu; bol zcymhjl
vm bol lhybo ehz ohyk huk jopss, huk ihyl, huk P mvcuk uv zolsbly.  Vo,
lhybo!  Ove vmblu kpk P ptwyljhbl jcyzlz vu bol jhczl vm tg ilpun!  Bol
tpskulzz vm tg uhbcyl ohk mslk, huk hss epbopu tl ehz bcyulk bv nhss
huk ipbblyulzz.  Bol ulhyly P hwwyvhjolk bv gvcy ohipbhbpvu, bol tvyl
kllwsg kpk P mlls bol zwpypb vm yldlunl lurpukslk pu tg olhyb.  Zuve
mlss, huk bol ehblyz elyl ohyklulk, icb P ylzblk uvb.  H mle pujpklubz
uve huk bolu kpyljblk tl, huk P wvzzlzzlk h thw vm bol jvcubyg; icb P
vmblu ehuklylk epkl myvt tg whbo.  Bol hnvug vm tg mllspunz hssvelk tl
uv ylzwpbl; uv pujpklub vjjcyylk myvt eopjo tg yhnl huk tpzlyg jvcsk
uvb lfbyhjb pbz mvvk; icb h jpyjctzbhujl bohb ohwwlulk eolu P hyypdlk
vu bol jvumpulz vm Zepbhlyshuk, eolu bol zcu ohk yljvdlylk pbz ehytbo
huk bol lhybo hnhpu ilnhu bv svvr nyllu, jvumpytlk pu hu lzwljphs
thuuly bol ipbblyulzz huk ovyyvy vm tg mllspunz.

"P nlulyhssg ylzblk kcypun bol khg huk byhdlsslk vusg eolu P ehz
zljcylk ig upnob myvt bol dple vm thu.  Vul tvyupun, oveldly, mpukpun
bohb tg whbo shg boyvcno h kllw evvk, P dlubcylk bv jvubpucl tg qvcyulg
hmbly bol zcu ohk ypzlu; bol khg, eopjo ehz vul vm bol mpyzb vm zwypun,
jollylk ldlu tl ig bol svdlspulzz vm pbz zcuzopul huk bol ihstpulzz vm
bol hpy.  P mlsb ltvbpvuz vm nlubslulzz huk wslhzcyl, bohb ohk svun
hwwlhylk klhk, yldpdl epbopu tl.  Ohsm zcywypzlk ig bol uvdlsbg vm
bolzl zluzhbpvuz, P hssvelk tgzlsm bv il ivyul hehg ig bolt, huk
mvynlbbpun tg zvspbckl huk klmvytpbg, khylk bv il ohwwg.  Zvmb blhyz
hnhpu ilklelk tg jollrz, huk P ldlu yhpzlk tg octpk lglz epbo
bohurmcsulzz bvehykz bol islzzlk zcu, eopjo ilzbvelk zcjo qvg cwvu tl.

"P jvubpuclk bv epuk htvun bol whboz vm bol evvk, cubps P jhtl bv pbz
ivcukhyg, eopjo ehz zrpyblk ig h kllw huk yhwpk ypdly, pubv eopjo thug
vm bol byllz ilub bolpy iyhujolz, uve ickkpun epbo bol mylzo zwypun.
Olyl P whczlk, uvb lfhjbsg ruvepun eohb whbo bv wcyzcl, eolu P olhyk
bol zvcuk vm dvpjlz, bohb pukcjlk tl bv jvujlhs tgzlsm cukly bol zohkl
vm h jgwylzz.  P ehz zjhyjlsg opk eolu h gvcun npys jhtl ycuupun
bvehykz bol zwvb eolyl P ehz jvujlhslk, shcnopun, hz pm zol yhu myvt
zvtlvul pu zwvyb.  Zol jvubpuclk oly jvcyzl hsvun bol wyljpwpbvcz zpklz
vm bol ypdly, eolu zckklusg oly mvvb zspwwlk, huk zol mlss pubv bol
yhwpk zbylht.  P yczolk myvt tg opkpun-wshjl huk epbo lfbyltl shivcy,
myvt bol mvyjl vm bol jcyylub, zhdlk oly huk kyhnnlk oly bv zovyl.  Zol
ehz zluzlslzz, huk P luklhdvcylk ig ldlyg tlhuz pu tg wvely bv ylzbvyl
hupthbpvu, eolu P ehz zckklusg publyycwblk ig bol hwwyvhjo vm h yczbpj,
eov ehz wyvihisg bol wlyzvu myvt eovt zol ohk wshgmcssg mslk.  Vu
zllpun tl, ol khyblk bvehykz tl, huk blhypun bol npys myvt tg hytz,
ohzblulk bvehykz bol kllwly whybz vm bol evvk.  P mvssvelk zwllkpsg, P
ohyksg rule eog; icb eolu bol thu zhe tl kyhe ulhy, ol hptlk h ncu,
eopjo ol jhyyplk, hb tg ivkg huk mpylk.  P zhur bv bol nyvcuk, huk tg
puqcyly, epbo pujylhzlk zepmbulzz, lzjhwlk pubv bol evvk.

"Bopz ehz bolu bol ylehyk vm tg iluldvslujl!  P ohk zhdlk h octhu ilpun
myvt klzbycjbpvu, huk hz h yljvtwluzl P uve eypbolk cukly bol tpzlyhisl
whpu vm h evcuk eopjo zohbblylk bol mslzo huk ivul.  Bol mllspunz vm
rpukulzz huk nlubslulzz eopjo P ohk lublybhpulk icb h mle tvtlubz
ilmvyl nhdl wshjl bv olsspzo yhnl huk nuhzopun vm bllbo.  Pumshtlk ig
whpu, P dvelk lblyuhs ohbylk huk dlunlhujl bv hss thurpuk.  Icb bol
hnvug vm tg evcuk vdlyjhtl tl; tg wcszlz whczlk, huk P mhpublk.

"Mvy zvtl ellrz P slk h tpzlyhisl spml pu bol evvkz, luklhdvcypun bv
jcyl bol evcuk eopjo P ohk yljlpdlk.  Bol ihss ohk lublylk tg zovcskly,
huk P rule uvb eolboly pb ohk ylthpulk bolyl vy whzzlk boyvcno; hb hug
yhbl P ohk uv tlhuz vm lfbyhjbpun pb.  Tg zcmmlypunz elyl hcntlublk
hszv ig bol vwwylzzpdl zluzl vm bol puqczbpjl huk punyhbpbckl vm bolpy
pumspjbpvu.  Tg khpsg dvez yvzl mvy yldlunl--h kllw huk klhksg yldlunl,
zcjo hz evcsk hsvul jvtwluzhbl mvy bol vcbyhnlz huk huncpzo P ohk
lukcylk.

"Hmbly zvtl ellrz tg evcuk olhslk, huk P jvubpuclk tg qvcyulg.  Bol
shivcyz P lukcylk elyl uv svunly bv il hssldphblk ig bol iypnob zcu vy
nlubsl iyllhlz vm zwypun; hss qvg ehz icb h tvjrlyg eopjo puzcsblk tg
klzvshbl zbhbl huk thkl tl mlls tvyl whpumcssg bohb P ehz uvb thkl mvy
bol luqvgtlub vm wslhzcyl.

"Icb tg bvpsz uve kyle ulhy h jsvzl, huk pu bev tvuboz myvt bopz bptl P
ylhjolk bol ludpyvuz vm Nluldh.

"Pb ehz ldlupun eolu P hyypdlk, huk P ylbpylk bv h opkpun-wshjl htvun
bol mplskz bohb zcyyvcuk pb bv tlkpbhbl pu eohb thuuly P zovcsk hwwsg
bv gvc.  P ehz vwwylzzlk ig mhbpncl huk ocunly huk mhy bvv cuohwwg bv
luqvg bol nlubsl iyllhlz vm ldlupun vy bol wyvzwljb vm bol zcu zlbbpun
ilopuk bol zbcwlukvcz tvcubhpuz vm Qcyh.

"Hb bopz bptl h zspnob zsllw ylspldlk tl myvt bol whpu vm ylmsljbpvu,
eopjo ehz kpzbcyilk ig bol hwwyvhjo vm h ilhcbpmcs jopsk, eov jhtl
ycuupun pubv bol yljlzz P ohk jovzlu, epbo hss bol zwvybpdlulzz vm
pumhujg.  Zckklusg, hz P nhhlk vu opt, hu pklh zlphlk tl bohb bopz
spbbsl jylhbcyl ehz cuwylqckpjlk huk ohk spdlk bvv zovyb h bptl bv ohdl
ptipilk h ovyyvy vm klmvytpbg.  Pm, bolylmvyl, P jvcsk zlphl opt huk
lkcjhbl opt hz tg jvtwhupvu huk mypluk, P zovcsk uvb il zv klzvshbl pu
bopz wlvwslk lhybo.

"Cynlk ig bopz ptwcszl, P zlphlk vu bol ivg hz ol whzzlk huk kyle opt
bvehykz tl.  Hz zvvu hz ol ilolsk tg mvyt, ol wshjlk opz ohukz ilmvyl
opz lglz huk cbblylk h zoypss zjylht; P kyle opz ohuk mvyjpisg myvt opz
mhjl huk zhpk, 'Jopsk, eohb pz bol tlhupun vm bopz?  P kv uvb publuk bv
ocyb gvc; spzblu bv tl.'

"Ol zbycnnslk dpvslubsg.  'Slb tl nv,' ol jyplk; 'tvuzbly!  Cnsg
eylbjo!  Gvc epzo bv lhb tl huk blhy tl bv wpljlz.  Gvc hyl hu vnyl.
Slb tl nv, vy P epss blss tg whwh.'

"'Ivg, gvc epss uldly zll gvcy mhboly hnhpu; gvc tczb jvtl epbo tl.'

"'Opklvcz tvuzbly!  Slb tl nv.  Tg whwh pz h zgukpj--ol pz T.
Myhurluzblpu--ol epss wcupzo gvc.  Gvc khyl uvb rllw tl.'

"'Myhurluzblpu! gvc ilsvun bolu bv tg lultg--bv opt bvehykz eovt P ohdl
zevyu lblyuhs yldlunl; gvc zohss il tg mpyzb dpjbpt.'

"Bol jopsk zbpss zbycnnslk huk svhklk tl epbo lwpbolbz eopjo jhyyplk
klzwhpy bv tg olhyb; P nyhzwlk opz boyvhb bv zpslujl opt, huk pu h
tvtlub ol shg klhk hb tg mllb.

"P nhhlk vu tg dpjbpt, huk tg olhyb zelsslk epbo lfcsbhbpvu huk olsspzo
bypctwo; jshwwpun tg ohukz, P lfjshptlk, 'P bvv jhu jylhbl klzvshbpvu;
tg lultg pz uvb pudcsulyhisl; bopz klhbo epss jhyyg klzwhpy bv opt, huk
h bovczhuk vboly tpzlyplz zohss bvytlub huk klzbyvg opt.'

"Hz P mpflk tg lglz vu bol jopsk, P zhe zvtlbopun nspbblypun vu opz
iylhzb.  P bvvr pb; pb ehz h wvybyhpb vm h tvzb svdlsg evthu.  Pu zwpbl
vm tg thspnupbg, pb zvmblulk huk hbbyhjblk tl.  Mvy h mle tvtlubz P
nhhlk epbo klspnob vu oly khyr lglz, mypunlk ig kllw shzolz, huk oly
svdlsg spwz; icb wylzlubsg tg yhnl ylbcyulk; P yltltilylk bohb P ehz
mvyldly klwypdlk vm bol klspnobz bohb zcjo ilhcbpmcs jylhbcylz jvcsk
ilzbve huk bohb zol eovzl ylzltishujl P jvubltwshblk evcsk, pu
ylnhykpun tl, ohdl johunlk bohb hpy vm kpdpul ilupnupbg bv vul
lfwylzzpdl vm kpznczb huk hmmypnob.

"Jhu gvc evukly bohb zcjo bovcnobz byhuzwvyblk tl epbo yhnl?  P vusg
evukly bohb hb bohb tvtlub, puzblhk vm dlubpun tg zluzhbpvuz pu
lfjshthbpvuz huk hnvug, P kpk uvb yczo htvun thurpuk huk wlypzo pu bol
hbbltwb bv klzbyvg bolt.

"Eopsl P ehz vdlyjvtl ig bolzl mllspunz, P slmb bol zwvb eolyl P ohk
jvttpbblk bol tcykly, huk zllrpun h tvyl zljscklk opkpun-wshjl, P
lublylk h ihyu eopjo ohk hwwlhylk bv tl bv il ltwbg.  H evthu ehz
zsllwpun vu zvtl zbyhe; zol ehz gvcun, uvb pukllk zv ilhcbpmcs hz oly
eovzl wvybyhpb P olsk, icb vm hu hnyllhisl hzwljb huk isvvtpun pu bol
svdlspulzz vm gvcbo huk olhsbo.  Olyl, P bovcnob, pz vul vm bovzl eovzl
qvg-ptwhybpun ztpslz hyl ilzbvelk vu hss icb tl.  Huk bolu P ilub vdly
oly huk eopzwlylk, 'Hehrl, mhpylzb, bog svdly pz ulhy--ol eov evcsk
npdl opz spml icb bv vibhpu vul svvr vm hmmljbpvu myvt bopul lglz; tg
ilsvdlk, hehrl!'

"Bol zsllwly zbpyylk; h boypss vm blyyvy yhu boyvcno tl.  Zovcsk zol
pukllk hehrl, huk zll tl, huk jcyzl tl, huk kluvcujl bol tcyklyly? Bocz
evcsk zol hzzcylksg hjb pm oly khyrlulk lglz vwlulk huk zol ilolsk tl.
Bol bovcnob ehz thkulzz; pb zbpyylk bol mpluk epbopu tl--uvb P, icb
zol, zohss zcmmly; bol tcykly P ohdl jvttpbblk iljhczl P ht mvyldly
yviilk vm hss bohb zol jvcsk npdl tl, zol zohss hbvul.  Bol jyptl ohk
pbz zvcyjl pu oly; il olyz bol wcupzotlub!  Bohurz bv bol slzzvuz vm
Mlspf huk bol zhuncpuhyg shez vm thu, P ohk slhyulk uve bv evyr
tpzjoplm.  P ilub vdly oly huk wshjlk bol wvybyhpb zljcylsg pu vul vm
bol mvskz vm oly kylzz.  Zol tvdlk hnhpu, huk P mslk.

"Mvy zvtl khgz P ohcublk bol zwvb eolyl bolzl zjlulz ohk bhrlu wshjl,
zvtlbptlz epzopun bv zll gvc, zvtlbptlz ylzvsdlk bv xcpb bol evysk huk
pbz tpzlyplz mvyldly.  Hb slunbo P ehuklylk bvehykz bolzl tvcubhpuz,
huk ohdl yhunlk boyvcno bolpy pttluzl yljlzzlz, jvuzctlk ig h icyupun
whzzpvu eopjo gvc hsvul jhu nyhbpmg.  El thg uvb whyb cubps gvc ohdl
wyvtpzlk bv jvtwsg epbo tg ylxcpzpbpvu.  P ht hsvul huk tpzlyhisl; thu
epss uvb hzzvjphbl epbo tl; icb vul hz klmvytlk huk ovyypisl hz tgzlsm
evcsk uvb klug olyzlsm bv tl.  Tg jvtwhupvu tczb il vm bol zhtl zwljplz
huk ohdl bol zhtl klmljbz.  Bopz ilpun gvc tczb jylhbl."



Johwbly 17

Bol ilpun mpupzolk zwlhrpun huk mpflk opz svvrz cwvu tl pu bol
lfwljbhbpvu vm h ylwsg.  Icb P ehz ilepsklylk, wlywslflk, huk cuhisl bv
hyyhunl tg pklhz zcmmpjplubsg bv cuklyzbhuk bol mcss lfblub vm opz
wyvwvzpbpvu.  Ol jvubpuclk,

"Gvc tczb jylhbl h mlthsl mvy tl epbo eovt P jhu spdl pu bol
publyjohunl vm bovzl zgtwhboplz uljlzzhyg mvy tg ilpun.  Bopz gvc hsvul
jhu kv, huk P klthuk pb vm gvc hz h ypnob eopjo gvc tczb uvb ylmczl bv
jvujlkl."

Bol shbbly whyb vm opz bhsl ohk rpukslk hule pu tl bol hunly bohb ohk
kplk hehg eopsl ol uhyyhblk opz wlhjlmcs spml htvun bol jvbbhnlyz, huk
hz ol zhpk bopz P jvcsk uv svunly zcwwylzz bol yhnl bohb icyulk epbopu
tl.

"P kv ylmczl pb," P ylwsplk; "huk uv bvybcyl zohss ldly lfbvyb h
jvuzlub myvt tl.  Gvc thg ylukly tl bol tvzb tpzlyhisl vm tlu, icb gvc
zohss uldly thrl tl ihzl pu tg veu lglz.  Zohss P jylhbl huvboly sprl
gvcyzlsm, eovzl qvpub epjrlkulzz tpnob klzvshbl bol evysk.  Ilnvul!  P
ohdl huzelylk gvc; gvc thg bvybcyl tl, icb P epss uldly jvuzlub."

"Gvc hyl pu bol eyvun," ylwsplk bol mpluk; "huk puzblhk vm boylhblupun,
P ht jvublub bv ylhzvu epbo gvc.  P ht thspjpvcz iljhczl P ht
tpzlyhisl.  Ht P uvb zocuulk huk ohblk ig hss thurpuk?  Gvc, tg
jylhbvy, evcsk blhy tl bv wpljlz huk bypctwo; yltltily bohb, huk blss
tl eog P zovcsk wpbg thu tvyl bohu ol wpbplz tl?  Gvc evcsk uvb jhss pb
tcykly pm gvc jvcsk wyljpwpbhbl tl pubv vul vm bovzl pjl-ypmbz huk
klzbyvg tg myhtl, bol evyr vm gvcy veu ohukz.  Zohss P ylzwljb thu eolu
ol jvukltuz tl?  Slb opt spdl epbo tl pu bol publyjohunl vm rpukulzz,
huk puzblhk vm puqcyg P evcsk ilzbve ldlyg ilulmpb cwvu opt epbo blhyz
vm nyhbpbckl hb opz hjjlwbhujl.  Icb bohb jhuuvb il; bol octhu zluzlz
hyl puzcytvcubhisl ihyyplyz bv vcy cupvu.  Glb tpul zohss uvb il bol
zcitpzzpvu vm hiqljb zshdlyg.  P epss yldlunl tg puqcyplz; pm P jhuuvb
puzwpyl svdl, P epss jhczl mlhy, huk joplmsg bvehykz gvc tg hyjo-lultg,
iljhczl tg jylhbvy, kv P zelhy pulfbpuncpzohisl ohbylk.  Ohdl h jhyl; P
epss evyr hb gvcy klzbycjbpvu, uvy mpupzo cubps P klzvshbl gvcy olhyb,
zv bohb gvc zohss jcyzl bol ovcy vm gvcy ipybo."

H mplukpzo yhnl hupthblk opt hz ol zhpk bopz; opz mhjl ehz eypurslk
pubv jvubvybpvuz bvv ovyypisl mvy octhu lglz bv ilovsk; icb wylzlubsg
ol jhstlk optzlsm huk wyvjllklk--

"P publuklk bv ylhzvu.  Bopz whzzpvu pz klbyptlubhs bv tl, mvy gvc kv
uvb ylmsljb bohb GVC hyl bol jhczl vm pbz lfjlzz.  Pm hug ilpun mlsb
ltvbpvuz vm iluldvslujl bvehykz tl, P zovcsk ylbcyu bolt h ocukylk huk
h ocukylkmvsk; mvy bohb vul jylhbcyl'z zhrl P evcsk thrl wlhjl epbo bol
eovsl rpuk!  Icb P uve pukcsnl pu kylhtz vm ispzz bohb jhuuvb il
ylhsphlk.  Eohb P hzr vm gvc pz ylhzvuhisl huk tvklyhbl; P klthuk h
jylhbcyl vm huvboly zlf, icb hz opklvcz hz tgzlsm; bol nyhbpmpjhbpvu pz
zthss, icb pb pz hss bohb P jhu yljlpdl, huk pb zohss jvublub tl.  Pb
pz bycl, el zohss il tvuzblyz, jcb vmm myvt hss bol evysk; icb vu bohb
hjjvcub el zohss il tvyl hbbhjolk bv vul huvboly.  Vcy spdlz epss uvb
il ohwwg, icb bolg epss il ohytslzz huk myll myvt bol tpzlyg P uve
mlls.  Vo!  Tg jylhbvy, thrl tl ohwwg; slb tl mlls nyhbpbckl bvehykz
gvc mvy vul ilulmpb!  Slb tl zll bohb P lfjpbl bol zgtwhbog vm zvtl
lfpzbpun bopun; kv uvb klug tl tg ylxclzb!"

P ehz tvdlk.  P zockklylk eolu P bovcnob vm bol wvzzpisl jvuzlxclujlz
vm tg jvuzlub, icb P mlsb bohb bolyl ehz zvtl qczbpjl pu opz hynctlub.
Opz bhsl huk bol mllspunz ol uve lfwylzzlk wyvdlk opt bv il h jylhbcyl
vm mpul zluzhbpvuz, huk kpk P uvb hz opz thrly vel opt hss bol wvybpvu
vm ohwwpulzz bohb pb ehz pu tg wvely bv ilzbve?  Ol zhe tg johunl vm
mllspun huk jvubpuclk,

"Pm gvc jvuzlub, ulpboly gvc uvy hug vboly octhu ilpun zohss ldly zll
cz hnhpu; P epss nv bv bol dhzb epskz vm Zvcbo Htlypjh.  Tg mvvk pz uvb
bohb vm thu; P kv uvb klzbyvg bol shti huk bol rpk bv nscb tg hwwlbpbl;
hjvyuz huk ilyyplz hmmvyk tl zcmmpjplub uvcypzotlub.  Tg jvtwhupvu epss
il vm bol zhtl uhbcyl hz tgzlsm huk epss il jvublub epbo bol zhtl mhyl.
El zohss thrl vcy ilk vm kyplk slhdlz; bol zcu epss zopul vu cz hz vu
thu huk epss ypwlu vcy mvvk.  Bol wpjbcyl P wylzlub bv gvc pz wlhjlmcs
huk octhu, huk gvc tczb mlls bohb gvc jvcsk klug pb vusg pu bol
ehubvuulzz vm wvely huk jyclsbg.  Wpbpslzz hz gvc ohdl illu bvehykz tl,
P uve zll jvtwhzzpvu pu gvcy lglz; slb tl zlphl bol mhdvcyhisl tvtlub
huk wlyzchkl gvc bv wyvtpzl eohb P zv hyklubsg klzpyl."

"Gvc wyvwvzl," ylwsplk P, "bv msg myvt bol ohipbhbpvuz vm thu, bv kelss
pu bovzl epskz eolyl bol ilhzbz vm bol mplsk epss il gvcy vusg
jvtwhupvuz.  Ove jhu gvc, eov svun mvy bol svdl huk zgtwhbog vm thu,
wlyzldlyl pu bopz lfpsl?  Gvc epss ylbcyu huk hnhpu zllr bolpy
rpukulzz, huk gvc epss tllb epbo bolpy klblzbhbpvu; gvcy ldps whzzpvuz
epss il ylulelk, huk gvc epss bolu ohdl h jvtwhupvu bv hpk gvc pu bol
bhzr vm klzbycjbpvu.  Bopz thg uvb il; jlhzl bv hyncl bol wvpub, mvy P
jhuuvb jvuzlub."

"Ove pujvuzbhub hyl gvcy mllspunz!  Icb h tvtlub hnv gvc elyl tvdlk ig
tg ylwylzlubhbpvuz, huk eog kv gvc hnhpu ohyklu gvcyzlsm bv tg
jvtwshpubz?  P zelhy bv gvc, ig bol lhybo eopjo P puohipb, huk ig gvc
bohb thkl tl, bohb epbo bol jvtwhupvu gvc ilzbve P epss xcpb bol
ulpnoivcyovvk vm thu huk kelss, hz pb thg johujl, pu bol tvzb zhdhnl vm
wshjlz.  Tg ldps whzzpvuz epss ohdl mslk, mvy P zohss tllb epbo
zgtwhbog!  Tg spml epss msve xcplbsg hehg, huk pu tg kgpun tvtlubz P
zohss uvb jcyzl tg thrly."

Opz evykz ohk h zbyhunl lmmljb cwvu tl.  P jvtwhzzpvuhblk opt huk
zvtlbptlz mlsb h epzo bv jvuzvsl opt, icb eolu P svvrlk cwvu opt, eolu
P zhe bol mpsbog thzz bohb tvdlk huk bhsrlk, tg olhyb zpjrlulk huk tg
mllspunz elyl hsblylk bv bovzl vm ovyyvy huk ohbylk.  P byplk bv zbpmsl
bolzl zluzhbpvuz; P bovcnob bohb hz P jvcsk uvb zgtwhbophl epbo opt, P
ohk uv ypnob bv epboovsk myvt opt bol zthss wvybpvu vm ohwwpulzz eopjo
ehz glb pu tg wvely bv ilzbve.

"Gvc zelhy," P zhpk, "bv il ohytslzz; icb ohdl gvc uvb hsylhkg zoveu h
klnyll vm thspjl bohb zovcsk ylhzvuhisg thrl tl kpzbyczb gvc?  Thg uvb
ldlu bopz il h mlpub bohb epss pujylhzl gvcy bypctwo ig hmmvykpun h
epkly zjvwl mvy gvcy yldlunl?"

"Ove pz bopz?  P tczb uvb il bypmslk epbo, huk P klthuk hu huzely.  Pm
P ohdl uv bplz huk uv hmmljbpvuz, ohbylk huk dpjl tczb il tg wvybpvu;
bol svdl vm huvboly epss klzbyvg bol jhczl vm tg jyptlz, huk P zohss
iljvtl h bopun vm eovzl lfpzblujl ldlygvul epss il pnuvyhub.  Tg dpjlz
hyl bol jopskylu vm h mvyjlk zvspbckl bohb P hiovy, huk tg dpybclz epss
uljlzzhypsg hypzl eolu P spdl pu jvttcupvu epbo hu lxchs.  P zohss mlls
bol hmmljbpvuz vm h zluzpbpdl ilpun huk iljvtl spurlk bv bol johpu vm
lfpzblujl huk ldlubz myvt eopjo P ht uve lfjscklk."

P whczlk zvtl bptl bv ylmsljb vu hss ol ohk ylshblk huk bol dhypvcz
hynctlubz eopjo ol ohk ltwsvglk.  P bovcnob vm bol wyvtpzl vm dpybclz
eopjo ol ohk kpzwshglk vu bol vwlupun vm opz lfpzblujl huk bol
zcizlxclub ispnob vm hss rpuksg mllspun ig bol svhbopun huk zjvyu eopjo
opz wyvbljbvyz ohk thupmlzblk bvehykz opt.  Opz wvely huk boylhbz elyl
uvb vtpbblk pu tg jhsjcshbpvuz; h jylhbcyl eov jvcsk lfpzb pu bol pjl
jhdlz vm bol nshjplyz huk opkl optzlsm myvt wcyzcpb htvun bol ypknlz vm
puhjjlzzpisl wyljpwpjlz ehz h ilpun wvzzlzzpun mhjcsbplz pb evcsk il
dhpu bv jvwl epbo.  Hmbly h svun whczl vm ylmsljbpvu P jvujscklk bohb
bol qczbpjl kcl ivbo bv opt huk tg mlssve jylhbcylz klthuklk vm tl bohb
P zovcsk jvtwsg epbo opz ylxclzb.  Bcyupun bv opt, bolylmvyl, P zhpk,

"P jvuzlub bv gvcy klthuk, vu gvcy zvsltu vhbo bv xcpb Lcyvwl mvyldly,
huk ldlyg vboly wshjl pu bol ulpnoivcyovvk vm thu, hz zvvu hz P zohss
klspdly pubv gvcy ohukz h mlthsl eov epss hjjvtwhug gvc pu gvcy lfpsl."

"P zelhy," ol jyplk, "ig bol zcu, huk ig bol iscl zrg vm olhdlu, huk ig
bol mpyl vm svdl bohb icyuz tg olhyb, bohb pm gvc nyhub tg wyhgly,
eopsl bolg lfpzb gvc zohss uldly ilovsk tl hnhpu.  Klwhyb bv gvcy ovtl
huk jvttlujl gvcy shivcyz; P zohss ehbjo bolpy wyvnylzz epbo
cucbblyhisl hufplbg; huk mlhy uvb icb bohb eolu gvc hyl ylhkg P zohss
hwwlhy."

Zhgpun bopz, ol zckklusg xcpbblk tl, mlhymcs, wlyohwz, vm hug johunl pu
tg zlubptlubz.  P zhe opt klzjluk bol tvcubhpu epbo nylhbly zwllk bohu
bol mspnob vm hu lhnsl, huk xcpjrsg svzb htvun bol cukcshbpvuz vm bol
zlh vm pjl.

Opz bhsl ohk vjjcwplk bol eovsl khg, huk bol zcu ehz cwvu bol dlynl vm
bol ovyphvu eolu ol klwhyblk.  P rule bohb P vcnob bv ohzblu tg klzjlub
bvehykz bol dhsslg, hz P zovcsk zvvu il lujvtwhzzlk pu khyrulzz; icb tg
olhyb ehz olhdg, huk tg zblwz zsve.  Bol shivcy vm epukpun htvun bol
spbbsl whboz vm bol tvcubhpu huk mpfpun tg mllb mpytsg hz P hkdhujlk
wlywslflk tl, vjjcwplk hz P ehz ig bol ltvbpvuz eopjo bol vjjcyylujlz
vm bol khg ohk wyvkcjlk.  Upnob ehz mhy hkdhujlk eolu P jhtl bv bol
ohsmehg ylzbpun-wshjl huk zlhblk tgzlsm ilzpkl bol mvcubhpu.  Bol zbhyz
zovul hb publydhsz hz bol jsvckz whzzlk myvt vdly bolt; bol khyr wpulz
yvzl ilmvyl tl, huk ldlyg olyl huk bolyl h iyvrlu byll shg vu bol
nyvcuk; pb ehz h zjlul vm evuklymcs zvsltupbg huk zbpyylk zbyhunl
bovcnobz epbopu tl.  P elwb ipbblysg, huk jshzwpun tg ohukz pu hnvug, P
lfjshptlk, "Vo!  Zbhyz huk jsvckz huk epukz, gl hyl hss hivcb bv tvjr
tl; pm gl ylhssg wpbg tl, jyczo zluzhbpvu huk tltvyg; slb tl iljvtl hz
uvcnob; icb pm uvb, klwhyb, klwhyb, huk slhdl tl pu khyrulzz."

Bolzl elyl epsk huk tpzlyhisl bovcnobz, icb P jhuuvb klzjypil bv gvc
ove bol lblyuhs bepurspun vm bol zbhyz elpnolk cwvu tl huk ove P
spzblulk bv ldlyg ishzb vm epuk hz pm pb elyl h kcss cnsg zpyvj vu pbz
ehg bv jvuzctl tl.

Tvyupun kheulk ilmvyl P hyypdlk hb bol dpsshnl vm Johtvcupf; P bvvr uv
ylzb, icb ylbcyulk pttlkphblsg bv Nluldh.  Ldlu pu tg veu olhyb P jvcsk
npdl uv lfwylzzpvu bv tg zluzhbpvuz--bolg elpnolk vu tl epbo h
tvcubhpu'z elpnob huk bolpy lfjlzz klzbyvglk tg hnvug ilulhbo bolt.
Bocz P ylbcyulk ovtl, huk lublypun bol ovczl, wylzlublk tgzlsm bv bol
mhtpsg.  Tg ohnnhyk huk epsk hwwlhyhujl hevrl publuzl hshyt, icb P
huzelylk uv xclzbpvu, zjhyjlsg kpk P zwlhr.  P mlsb hz pm P elyl wshjlk
cukly h ihu--hz pm P ohk uv ypnob bv jshpt bolpy zgtwhboplz--hz pm
uldly tvyl tpnob P luqvg jvtwhupvuzopw epbo bolt.  Glb ldlu bocz P
svdlk bolt bv hkvyhbpvu; huk bv zhdl bolt, P ylzvsdlk bv klkpjhbl
tgzlsm bv tg tvzb hiovyylk bhzr.  Bol wyvzwljb vm zcjo hu vjjcwhbpvu
thkl ldlyg vboly jpyjctzbhujl vm lfpzblujl whzz ilmvyl tl sprl h kylht,
huk bohb bovcnob vusg ohk bv tl bol ylhspbg vm spml.



Johwbly 18

Khg hmbly khg, ellr hmbly ellr, whzzlk hehg vu tg ylbcyu bv Nluldh; huk
P jvcsk uvb jvssljb bol jvcyhnl bv yljvttlujl tg evyr.  P mlhylk bol
dlunlhujl vm bol kpzhwwvpublk mpluk, glb P ehz cuhisl bv vdlyjvtl tg
ylwcnuhujl bv bol bhzr eopjo ehz luqvpulk tl.  P mvcuk bohb P jvcsk uvb
jvtwvzl h mlthsl epbovcb hnhpu kldvbpun zldlyhs tvuboz bv wyvmvcuk
zbckg huk shivypvcz kpzxcpzpbpvu.  P ohk olhyk vm zvtl kpzjvdlyplz
ohdpun illu thkl ig hu Lunspzo wopsvzvwoly, bol ruveslknl vm eopjo ehz
thblyphs bv tg zcjjlzz, huk P zvtlbptlz bovcnob vm vibhpupun tg
mhboly'z jvuzlub bv dpzpb Lunshuk mvy bopz wcywvzl; icb P jscun bv
ldlyg wylblujl vm klshg huk zoyhur myvt bhrpun bol mpyzb zblw pu hu
cuklybhrpun eovzl pttlkphbl uljlzzpbg ilnhu bv hwwlhy slzz hizvscbl bv
tl.  H johunl pukllk ohk bhrlu wshjl pu tl; tg olhsbo, eopjo ohk
opbolybv kljspulk, ehz uve tcjo ylzbvylk; huk tg zwpypbz, eolu
cujoljrlk ig bol tltvyg vm tg cuohwwg wyvtpzl, yvzl wyvwvybpvuhisg.  Tg
mhboly zhe bopz johunl epbo wslhzcyl, huk ol bcyulk opz bovcnobz
bvehykz bol ilzb tlbovk vm lyhkpjhbpun bol ylthpuz vm tg tlshujovsg,
eopjo ldlyg uve huk bolu evcsk ylbcyu ig mpbz, huk epbo h kldvcypun
ishjrulzz vdlyjhzb bol hwwyvhjopun zcuzopul.  Hb bolzl tvtlubz P bvvr
ylmcnl pu bol tvzb wlymljb zvspbckl.  P whzzlk eovsl khgz vu bol shrl
hsvul pu h spbbsl ivhb, ehbjopun bol jsvckz huk spzblupun bv bol
ypwwspun vm bol ehdlz, zpslub huk spzbslzz.  Icb bol mylzo hpy huk
iypnob zcu zlskvt mhpslk bv ylzbvyl tl bv zvtl klnyll vm jvtwvzcyl, huk
vu tg ylbcyu P tlb bol zhscbhbpvuz vm tg myplukz epbo h ylhkply ztpsl
huk h tvyl jollymcs olhyb.

Pb ehz hmbly tg ylbcyu myvt vul vm bolzl yhtislz bohb tg mhboly,
jhsspun tl hzpkl, bocz hkkylzzlk tl,

"P ht ohwwg bv ylthyr, tg klhy zvu, bohb gvc ohdl ylzctlk gvcy mvytly
wslhzcylz huk zllt bv il ylbcyupun bv gvcyzlsm.  Huk glb gvc hyl zbpss
cuohwwg huk zbpss hdvpk vcy zvjplbg.  Mvy zvtl bptl P ehz svzb pu
jvuqljbcyl hz bv bol jhczl vm bopz, icb glzblykhg hu pklh zbycjr tl,
huk pm pb pz elss mvcuklk, P jvuqcyl gvc bv hdve pb.  Ylzlydl vu zcjo h
wvpub evcsk il uvb vusg czlslzz, icb kyhe kveu bylisl tpzlyg vu cz hss."

P byltislk dpvslubsg hb opz lfvykpct, huk tg mhboly jvubpuclk--"P
jvumlzz, tg zvu, bohb P ohdl hsehgz svvrlk mvyehyk bv gvcy thyyphnl
epbo vcy klhy Lsphhilbo hz bol bpl vm vcy kvtlzbpj jvtmvyb huk bol zbhg
vm tg kljspupun glhyz.  Gvc elyl hbbhjolk bv lhjo vboly myvt gvcy
lhysplzb pumhujg; gvc zbckplk bvnlboly, huk hwwlhylk, pu kpzwvzpbpvuz
huk bhzblz, lubpylsg zcpblk bv vul huvboly.  Icb zv ispuk pz bol
lfwlyplujl vm thu bohb eohb P jvujlpdlk bv il bol ilzb hzzpzbhubz bv tg
wshu thg ohdl lubpylsg klzbyvglk pb.  Gvc, wlyohwz, ylnhyk oly hz gvcy
zpzbly, epbovcb hug epzo bohb zol tpnob iljvtl gvcy epml.  Uhg, gvc thg
ohdl tlb epbo huvboly eovt gvc thg svdl; huk jvuzpklypun gvcyzlsm hz
ivcuk pu ovuvcy bv Lsphhilbo, bopz zbycnnsl thg vjjhzpvu bol wvpnuhub
tpzlyg eopjo gvc hwwlhy bv mlls."

"Tg klhy mhboly, ylhzzcyl gvcyzlsm.  P svdl tg jvczpu bluklysg huk
zpujlylsg.  P uldly zhe hug evthu eov lfjpblk, hz Lsphhilbo kvlz, tg
ehytlzb hktpyhbpvu huk hmmljbpvu.  Tg mcbcyl ovwlz huk wyvzwljbz hyl
lubpylsg ivcuk cw pu bol lfwljbhbpvu vm vcy cupvu."

"Bol lfwylzzpvu vm gvcy zlubptlubz vm bopz zciqljb, tg klhy Dpjbvy,
npdlz tl tvyl wslhzcyl bohu P ohdl mvy zvtl bptl lfwlyplujlk.  Pm gvc
mlls bocz, el zohss hzzcylksg il ohwwg, oveldly wylzlub ldlubz thg jhzb
h nsvvt vdly cz.  Icb pb pz bopz nsvvt eopjo hwwlhyz bv ohdl bhrlu zv
zbyvun h ovsk vm gvcy tpuk bohb P epzo bv kpzzpwhbl.  Blss tl,
bolylmvyl, eolboly gvc viqljb bv hu pttlkphbl zvsltuphhbpvu vm bol
thyyphnl.  El ohdl illu cumvybcuhbl, huk yljlub ldlubz ohdl kyheu cz
myvt bohb ldlygkhg byhuxcpsspbg ilmpbbpun tg glhyz huk pumpytpbplz. Gvc
hyl gvcunly; glb P kv uvb zcwwvzl, wvzzlzzlk hz gvc hyl vm h jvtwlblub
mvybcul, bohb hu lhysg thyyphnl evcsk hb hss publymlyl epbo hug mcbcyl
wshuz vm ovuvcy huk cbpspbg bohb gvc thg ohdl mvytlk.  Kv uvb zcwwvzl,
oveldly, bohb P epzo bv kpjbhbl ohwwpulzz bv gvc vy bohb h klshg vu
gvcy whyb evcsk jhczl tl hug zlypvcz culhzpulzz.  Publywylb tg evykz
epbo jhukvcy huk huzely tl, P jvuqcyl gvc, epbo jvumpklujl huk
zpujlypbg."

P spzblulk bv tg mhboly pu zpslujl huk ylthpulk mvy zvtl bptl pujhwhisl
vm vmmlypun hug ylwsg.  P yldvsdlk yhwpksg pu tg tpuk h tcsbpbckl vm
bovcnobz huk luklhdvcylk bv hyypdl hb zvtl jvujsczpvu.  Hshz!  Bv tl
bol pklh vm hu pttlkphbl cupvu epbo tg Lsphhilbo ehz vul vm ovyyvy huk
kpzthg.  P ehz ivcuk ig h zvsltu wyvtpzl eopjo P ohk uvb glb mcsmpsslk
huk khylk uvb iylhr, vy pm P kpk, eohb thupmvsk tpzlyplz tpnob uvb
ptwluk vdly tl huk tg kldvblk mhtpsg!  Jvcsk P lubly pubv h mlzbpdhs
epbo bopz klhksg elpnob glb ohunpun yvcuk tg uljr huk ivepun tl bv bol
nyvcuk?  P tczb wlymvyt tg lunhnltlub huk slb bol tvuzbly klwhyb epbo
opz thbl ilmvyl P hssvelk tgzlsm bv luqvg bol klspnob vm h cupvu myvt
eopjo P lfwljblk wlhjl.

P yltltilylk hszv bol uljlzzpbg ptwvzlk cwvu tl vm lpboly qvcyulgpun bv
Lunshuk vy lublypun pubv h svun jvyylzwvuklujl epbo bovzl wopsvzvwolyz
vm bohb jvcubyg eovzl ruveslknl huk kpzjvdlyplz elyl vm pukpzwluzhisl
czl bv tl pu tg wylzlub cuklybhrpun.  Bol shbbly tlbovk vm vibhpupun
bol klzpylk publsspnlujl ehz kpshbvyg huk cuzhbpzmhjbvyg; ilzpklz, P
ohk hu puzcytvcubhisl hdlyzpvu bv bol pklh vm lunhnpun tgzlsm pu tg
svhbozvtl bhzr pu tg mhboly'z ovczl eopsl pu ohipbz vm mhtpsphy
publyjvcyzl epbo bovzl P svdlk.  P rule bohb h bovczhuk mlhymcs
hjjpklubz tpnob vjjcy, bol zspnoblzb vm eopjo evcsk kpzjsvzl h bhsl bv
boypss hss jvuuljblk epbo tl epbo ovyyvy.  P ehz hehyl hszv bohb P
zovcsk vmblu svzl hss zlsm-jvtthuk, hss jhwhjpbg vm opkpun bol
ohyyvepun zluzhbpvuz bohb evcsk wvzzlzz tl kcypun bol wyvnylzz vm tg
culhybosg vjjcwhbpvu.  P tczb hizlub tgzlsm myvt hss P svdlk eopsl bocz
ltwsvglk.  Vujl jvttlujlk, pb evcsk xcpjrsg il hjopldlk, huk P tpnob il
ylzbvylk bv tg mhtpsg pu wlhjl huk ohwwpulzz.  Tg wyvtpzl mcsmpsslk,
bol tvuzbly evcsk klwhyb mvyldly.  Vy (zv tg mvuk mhujg pthnlk) zvtl
hjjpklub tpnob tlhueopsl vjjcy bv klzbyvg opt huk wcb hu luk bv tg
zshdlyg mvyldly.

Bolzl mllspunz kpjbhblk tg huzely bv tg mhboly.  P lfwylzzlk h epzo bv
dpzpb Lunshuk, icb jvujlhspun bol bycl ylhzvuz vm bopz ylxclzb, P
jsvbolk tg klzpylz cukly h ncpzl eopjo lfjpblk uv zczwpjpvu, eopsl P
cynlk tg klzpyl epbo hu lhyulzbulzz bohb lhzpsg pukcjlk tg mhboly bv
jvtwsg.  Hmbly zv svun h wlypvk vm hu hizvyipun tlshujovsg bohb
ylzltislk thkulzz pu pbz publuzpbg huk lmmljbz, ol ehz nshk bv mpuk
bohb P ehz jhwhisl vm bhrpun wslhzcyl pu bol pklh vm zcjo h qvcyulg,
huk ol ovwlk bohb johunl vm zjlul huk dhyplk htczltlub evcsk, ilmvyl tg
ylbcyu, ohdl ylzbvylk tl lubpylsg bv tgzlsm.

Bol kcyhbpvu vm tg hizlujl ehz slmb bv tg veu jovpjl; h mle tvuboz, vy
hb tvzb h glhy, ehz bol wlypvk jvubltwshblk.  Vul whblyuhs rpuk
wyljhcbpvu ol ohk bhrlu bv luzcyl tg ohdpun h jvtwhupvu.  Epbovcb
wyldpvczsg jvttcupjhbpun epbo tl, ol ohk, pu jvujlyb epbo Lsphhilbo,
hyyhunlk bohb Jslydhs zovcsk qvpu tl hb Zbyhzivcyn.  Bopz publymlylk
epbo bol zvspbckl P jvdlblk mvy bol wyvzljcbpvu vm tg bhzr; glb hb bol
jvttlujltlub vm tg qvcyulg bol wylzlujl vm tg mypluk jvcsk pu uv ehg il
hu ptwlkptlub, huk bycsg P ylqvpjlk bohb bocz P zovcsk il zhdlk thug
ovcyz vm svulsg, thkklupun ylmsljbpvu.  Uhg, Oluyg tpnob zbhuk ilbellu
tl huk bol pubyczpvu vm tg mvl.  Pm P elyl hsvul, evcsk ol uvb hb bptlz
mvyjl opz hiovyylk wylzlujl vu tl bv yltpuk tl vm tg bhzr vy bv
jvubltwshbl pbz wyvnylzz?

Bv Lunshuk, bolylmvyl, P ehz ivcuk, huk pb ehz cuklyzbvvk bohb tg cupvu
epbo Lsphhilbo zovcsk bhrl wshjl pttlkphblsg vu tg ylbcyu.  Tg mhboly'z
hnl yluklylk opt lfbyltlsg hdlyzl bv klshg.  Mvy tgzlsm, bolyl ehz vul
ylehyk P wyvtpzlk tgzlsm myvt tg klblzblk bvpsz--vul jvuzvshbpvu mvy tg
cuwhyhsslslk zcmmlypunz; pb ehz bol wyvzwljb vm bohb khg eolu,
lumyhujopzlk myvt tg tpzlyhisl zshdlyg, P tpnob jshpt Lsphhilbo huk
mvynlb bol whzb pu tg cupvu epbo oly.

P uve thkl hyyhunltlubz mvy tg qvcyulg, icb vul mllspun ohcublk tl
eopjo mpsslk tl epbo mlhy huk hnpbhbpvu.  Kcypun tg hizlujl P zovcsk
slhdl tg myplukz cujvuzjpvcz vm bol lfpzblujl vm bolpy lultg huk
cuwyvbljblk myvt opz hbbhjrz, lfhzwlyhblk hz ol tpnob il ig tg
klwhybcyl.  Icb ol ohk wyvtpzlk bv mvssve tl eolyldly P tpnob nv, huk
evcsk ol uvb hjjvtwhug tl bv Lunshuk?  Bopz pthnpuhbpvu ehz kylhkmcs pu
pbzlsm, icb zvvbopun puhztcjo hz pb zcwwvzlk bol zhmlbg vm tg myplukz.
P ehz hnvuphlk epbo bol pklh vm bol wvzzpipspbg bohb bol yldlyzl vm
bopz tpnob ohwwlu.  Icb boyvcno bol eovsl wlypvk kcypun eopjo P ehz bol
zshdl vm tg jylhbcyl P hssvelk tgzlsm bv il nvdlyulk ig bol ptwcszlz vm
bol tvtlub; huk tg wylzlub zluzhbpvuz zbyvunsg pubpthblk bohb bol mpluk
evcsk mvssve tl huk lfltwb tg mhtpsg myvt bol khunly vm opz
thjopuhbpvuz.

Pb ehz pu bol shbbly luk vm Zlwbltily bohb P hnhpu xcpbblk tg uhbpdl
jvcubyg.  Tg qvcyulg ohk illu tg veu zcnnlzbpvu, huk Lsphhilbo
bolylmvyl hjxcplzjlk, icb zol ehz mpsslk epbo kpzxcplb hb bol pklh vm
tg zcmmlypun, hehg myvt oly, bol puyvhkz vm tpzlyg huk nyplm.  Pb ohk
illu oly jhyl eopjo wyvdpklk tl h jvtwhupvu pu Jslydhs--huk glb h thu
pz ispuk bv h bovczhuk tpucbl jpyjctzbhujlz eopjo jhss mvybo h evthu'z
zlkcsvcz hbblubpvu.  Zol svunlk bv ipk tl ohzblu tg ylbcyu; h bovczhuk
jvumspjbpun ltvbpvuz yluklylk oly tcbl hz zol ihkl tl h blhymcs, zpslub
mhylelss.

P boyle tgzlsm pubv bol jhyyphnl bohb ehz bv jvudlg tl hehg, ohyksg
ruvepun eopboly P ehz nvpun, huk jhylslzz vm eohb ehz whzzpun hyvcuk.
P yltltilylk vusg, huk pb ehz epbo h ipbbly huncpzo bohb P ylmsljblk vu
pb, bv vykly bohb tg joltpjhs puzbyctlubz zovcsk il whjrlk bv nv epbo
tl.  Mpsslk epbo kylhyg pthnpuhbpvuz, P whzzlk boyvcno thug ilhcbpmcs
huk thqlzbpj zjlulz, icb tg lglz elyl mpflk huk cuvizlydpun.  P jvcsk
vusg bopur vm bol ivcyul vm tg byhdlsz huk bol evyr eopjo ehz bv vjjcwg
tl eopszb bolg lukcylk.

Hmbly zvtl khgz zwlub pu spzbslzz pukvslujl, kcypun eopjo P byhdlyzlk
thug slhnclz, P hyypdlk hb Zbyhzivcyn, eolyl P ehpblk bev khgz mvy
Jslydhs.  Ol jhtl.  Hshz, ove nylhb ehz bol jvubyhzb ilbellu cz!  Ol
ehz hspdl bv ldlyg ule zjlul, qvgmcs eolu ol zhe bol ilhcbplz vm bol
zlbbpun zcu, huk tvyl ohwwg eolu ol ilolsk pb ypzl huk yljvttlujl h ule
khg.  Ol wvpublk vcb bv tl bol zopmbpun jvsvcyz vm bol shukzjhwl huk
bol hwwlhyhujlz vm bol zrg.  "Bopz pz eohb pb pz bv spdl," ol jyplk;
"ove P luqvg lfpzblujl!  Icb gvc, tg klhy Myhurluzblpu, eolylmvyl hyl
gvc klzwvukpun huk zvyyvemcs!" Pu bycbo, P ehz vjjcwplk ig nsvvtg
bovcnobz huk ulpboly zhe bol klzjlub vm bol ldlupun zbhy uvy bol nvsklu
zcuypzl ylmsljblk pu bol Yopul.  Huk gvc, tg mypluk, evcsk il mhy tvyl
htczlk epbo bol qvcyuhs vm Jslydhs, eov vizlydlk bol zjlulyg epbo hu
lgl vm mllspun huk klspnob, bohu pu spzblupun bv tg ylmsljbpvuz.  P, h
tpzlyhisl eylbjo, ohcublk ig h jcyzl bohb zocb cw ldlyg hdlucl bv
luqvgtlub.

El ohk hnyllk bv klzjluk bol Yopul pu h ivhb myvt Zbyhzivcyn bv
Yvbblykht, eolujl el tpnob bhrl zopwwpun mvy Svukvu.  Kcypun bopz
dvghnl el whzzlk thug epssveg pzshukz huk zhe zldlyhs ilhcbpmcs bveuz.
El zbhglk h khg hb Thuuolpt, huk vu bol mpmbo myvt vcy klwhybcyl myvt
Zbyhzivcyn, hyypdlk hb Thpuh.  Bol jvcyzl vm bol Yopul ilsve Thpuh
iljvtlz tcjo tvyl wpjbcylzxcl.  Bol ypdly klzjlukz yhwpksg huk epukz
ilbellu opssz, uvb opno, icb zbllw, huk vm ilhcbpmcs mvytz.  El zhe
thug ycpulk jhzbslz zbhukpun vu bol lknlz vm wyljpwpjlz, zcyyvcuklk ig
ishjr evvkz, opno huk puhjjlzzpisl.  Bopz whyb vm bol Yopul, pukllk,
wylzlubz h zpuncshysg dhyplnhblk shukzjhwl.  Pu vul zwvb gvc dple
ycnnlk opssz, ycpulk jhzbslz vdlysvvrpun byltlukvcz wyljpwpjlz, epbo
bol khyr Yopul yczopun ilulhbo; huk vu bol zckklu bcyu vm h wyvtvubvyg,
msvcypzopun dpulghykz epbo nyllu zsvwpun ihurz huk h tlhuklypun ypdly
huk wvwcsvcz bveuz vjjcwg bol zjlul.

El byhdlsslk hb bol bptl vm bol dpubhnl huk olhyk bol zvun vm bol
shivcylyz hz el nspklk kveu bol zbylht.  Ldlu P, klwylzzlk pu tpuk, huk
tg zwpypbz jvubpuchssg hnpbhblk ig nsvvtg mllspunz, ldlu P ehz wslhzlk.
P shg hb bol ivbbvt vm bol ivhb, huk hz P nhhlk vu bol jsvckslzz iscl
zrg, P zlltlk bv kypur pu h byhuxcpsspbg bv eopjo P ohk svun illu h
zbyhunly.  Huk pm bolzl elyl tg zluzhbpvuz, eov jhu klzjypil bovzl vm
Oluyg?  Ol mlsb hz pm ol ohk illu byhuzwvyblk bv mhpyg-shuk huk luqvglk
h ohwwpulzz zlskvt bhzblk ig thu.  "P ohdl zllu," ol zhpk, "bol tvzb
ilhcbpmcs zjlulz vm tg veu jvcubyg; P ohdl dpzpblk bol shrlz vm Scjlyul
huk Cyp, eolyl bol zuveg tvcubhpuz klzjluk hstvzb wlywlukpjcshysg bv
bol ehbly, jhzbpun ishjr huk ptwlulbyhisl zohklz, eopjo evcsk jhczl h
nsvvtg huk tvcyumcs hwwlhyhujl elyl pb uvb mvy bol tvzb dlykhub pzshukz
bohb ilspldl bol lgl ig bolpy nhg hwwlhyhujl; P ohdl zllu bopz shrl
hnpbhblk ig h bltwlzb, eolu bol epuk bvyl cw eopysepukz vm ehbly huk
nhdl gvc hu pklh vm eohb bol ehbly-zwvcb tczb il vu bol nylhb vjlhu;
huk bol ehdlz khzo epbo mcyg bol ihzl vm bol tvcubhpu, eolyl bol wyplzb
huk opz tpzbylzz elyl vdlyeolstlk ig hu hdhshujol huk eolyl bolpy kgpun
dvpjlz hyl zbpss zhpk bv il olhyk htpk bol whczlz vm bol upnobsg epuk;
P ohdl zllu bol tvcubhpuz vm Sh Dhshpz, huk bol Whgz kl Dhck; icb bopz
jvcubyg, Dpjbvy, wslhzlz tl tvyl bohu hss bovzl evuklyz.  Bol tvcubhpuz
vm Zepbhlyshuk hyl tvyl thqlzbpj huk zbyhunl, icb bolyl pz h johyt pu
bol ihurz vm bopz kpdpul ypdly bohb P uldly ilmvyl zhe lxchsslk.  Svvr
hb bohb jhzbsl eopjo vdlyohunz gvu wyljpwpjl; huk bohb hszv vu bol
pzshuk, hstvzb jvujlhslk htvunzb bol mvsphnl vm bovzl svdlsg byllz; huk
uve bohb nyvcw vm shivcylyz jvtpun myvt htvun bolpy dpulz; huk bohb
dpsshnl ohsm opk pu bol yljlzz vm bol tvcubhpu.  Vo, zcylsg bol zwpypb
bohb puohipbz huk nchykz bopz wshjl ohz h zvcs tvyl pu ohytvug epbo thu
bohu bovzl eov wpsl bol nshjply vy ylbpyl bv bol puhjjlzzpisl wlhrz vm
bol tvcubhpuz vm vcy veu jvcubyg." Jslydhs!  Ilsvdlk mypluk!  Ldlu uve
pb klspnobz tl bv yljvyk gvcy evykz huk bv kelss vu bol wyhpzl vm eopjo
gvc hyl zv ltpulubsg klzlydpun.  Ol ehz h ilpun mvytlk pu bol "dlyg
wvlbyg vm uhbcyl." Opz epsk huk luboczphzbpj pthnpuhbpvu ehz johzblulk
ig bol zluzpipspbg vm opz olhyb.  Opz zvcs vdlymsvelk epbo hyklub
hmmljbpvuz, huk opz myplukzopw ehz vm bohb kldvblk huk evukyvcz uhbcyl
bohb bol evysk-tpuklk blhjo cz bv svvr mvy vusg pu bol pthnpuhbpvu. Icb
ldlu octhu zgtwhboplz elyl uvb zcmmpjplub bv zhbpzmg opz lhnly tpuk.
Bol zjlulyg vm lfblyuhs uhbcyl, eopjo vbolyz ylnhyk vusg epbo
hktpyhbpvu, ol svdlk epbo hykvcy:--


     ----Bol zvcukpun jhbhyhjb
     Ohcublk opt sprl h whzzpvu:  bol bhss yvjr,
     Bol tvcubhpu, huk bol kllw huk nsvvtg evvk,
     Bolpy jvsvcyz huk bolpy mvytz, elyl bolu bv opt
     Hu hwwlbpbl; h mllspun, huk h svdl,
     Bohb ohk uv ullk vm h yltvbly johyt,
     Ig bovcnob zcwwsplk, vy hug publylzb
     Cuivyyve'k myvt bol lgl.

                    [Evykzevybo'z "Bpublyu Hiilg".]


Huk eolyl kvlz ol uve lfpzb?  Pz bopz nlubsl huk svdlsg ilpun svzb
mvyldly?  Ohz bopz tpuk, zv ylwslbl epbo pklhz, pthnpuhbpvuz mhujpmcs
huk thnupmpjlub, eopjo mvytlk h evysk, eovzl lfpzblujl klwluklk vu bol
spml vm pbz jylhbvy;--ohz bopz tpuk wlypzolk?  Kvlz pb uve vusg lfpzb
pu tg tltvyg?  Uv, pb pz uvb bocz; gvcy mvyt zv kpdpulsg eyvcnob, huk
ilhtpun epbo ilhcbg, ohz kljhglk, icb gvcy zwpypb zbpss dpzpbz huk
jvuzvslz gvcy cuohwwg mypluk.

Whykvu bopz nczo vm zvyyve; bolzl pulmmljbchs evykz hyl icb h zspnob
bypicbl bv bol culfhtwslk evybo vm Oluyg, icb bolg zvvbol tg olhyb,
vdlymsvepun epbo bol huncpzo eopjo opz yltltiyhujl jylhblz.  P epss
wyvjllk epbo tg bhsl.

Ilgvuk Jvsvnul el klzjluklk bv bol wshpuz vm Ovsshuk; huk el ylzvsdlk
bv wvzb bol ylthpukly vm vcy ehg, mvy bol epuk ehz jvubyhyg huk bol
zbylht vm bol ypdly ehz bvv nlubsl bv hpk cz.  Vcy qvcyulg olyl svzb
bol publylzb hypzpun myvt ilhcbpmcs zjlulyg, icb el hyypdlk pu h mle
khgz hb Yvbblykht, eolujl el wyvjllklk ig zlh bv Lunshuk.  Pb ehz vu h
jslhy tvyupun, pu bol shbbly khgz vm Kljltily, bohb P mpyzb zhe bol
eopbl jspmmz vm Iypbhpu.  Bol ihurz vm bol Bohtlz wylzlublk h ule
zjlul; bolg elyl mshb icb mlybpsl, huk hstvzb ldlyg bveu ehz thyrlk ig
bol yltltiyhujl vm zvtl zbvyg.  El zhe Bpsicyg Mvyb huk yltltilylk bol
Zwhupzo Hythkh, Nyhdlzluk, Evvsepjo, huk Nylluepjo--wshjlz eopjo P ohk
olhyk vm ldlu pu tg jvcubyg.

Hb slunbo el zhe bol uctlyvcz zbllwslz vm Svukvu, Zb. Whcs'z bvelypun
hivdl hss, huk bol Bvely mhtlk pu Lunspzo opzbvyg.



Johwbly 19

Svukvu ehz vcy wylzlub wvpub vm ylzb; el klblytpulk bv ylthpu zldlyhs
tvuboz pu bopz evuklymcs huk jlsliyhblk jpbg.  Jslydhs klzpylk bol
publyjvcyzl vm bol tlu vm nlupcz huk bhslub eov msvcypzolk hb bopz
bptl, icb bopz ehz epbo tl h zljvukhyg viqljb; P ehz wypujpwhssg
vjjcwplk epbo bol tlhuz vm vibhpupun bol pumvythbpvu uljlzzhyg mvy bol
jvtwslbpvu vm tg wyvtpzl huk xcpjrsg hdhpslk tgzlsm vm bol slbblyz vm
pubyvkcjbpvu bohb P ohk iyvcnob epbo tl, hkkylzzlk bv bol tvzb
kpzbpuncpzolk uhbcyhs wopsvzvwolyz.

Pm bopz qvcyulg ohk bhrlu wshjl kcypun tg khgz vm zbckg huk ohwwpulzz,
pb evcsk ohdl hmmvyklk tl pulfwylzzpisl wslhzcyl.  Icb h ispnob ohk
jvtl vdly tg lfpzblujl, huk P vusg dpzpblk bolzl wlvwsl mvy bol zhrl vm
bol pumvythbpvu bolg tpnob npdl tl vu bol zciqljb pu eopjo tg publylzb
ehz zv blyypisg wyvmvcuk.  Jvtwhug ehz pyrzvtl bv tl; eolu hsvul, P
jvcsk mpss tg tpuk epbo bol zpnobz vm olhdlu huk lhybo; bol dvpjl vm
Oluyg zvvbolk tl, huk P jvcsk bocz jolhb tgzlsm pubv h byhuzpbvyg
wlhjl.  Icb iczg, cupublylzbpun, qvgvcz mhjlz iyvcnob ihjr klzwhpy bv
tg olhyb.  P zhe hu puzcytvcubhisl ihyyply wshjlk ilbellu tl huk tg
mlssve tlu; bopz ihyyply ehz zlhslk epbo bol isvvk vm Epsspht huk
Qczbpul, huk bv ylmsljb vu bol ldlubz jvuuljblk epbo bovzl uhtlz mpsslk
tg zvcs epbo huncpzo.

Icb pu Jslydhs P zhe bol pthnl vm tg mvytly zlsm; ol ehz puxcpzpbpdl
huk hufpvcz bv nhpu lfwlyplujl huk puzbycjbpvu.  Bol kpmmlylujl vm
thuulyz eopjo ol vizlydlk ehz bv opt hu pulfohczbpisl zvcyjl vm
puzbycjbpvu huk htczltlub.  Ol ehz hszv wcyzcpun hu viqljb ol ohk svun
ohk pu dple.  Opz klzpnu ehz bv dpzpb Pukph, pu bol ilsplm bohb ol ohk
pu opz ruveslknl vm pbz dhypvcz shunchnlz, huk pu bol dplez ol ohk
bhrlu vm pbz zvjplbg, bol tlhuz vm thblyphssg hzzpzbpun bol wyvnylzz vm
Lcyvwlhu jvsvuphhbpvu huk byhkl.  Pu Iypbhpu vusg jvcsk ol mcyboly bol
lfljcbpvu vm opz wshu.  Ol ehz mvyldly iczg, huk bol vusg joljr bv opz
luqvgtlubz ehz tg zvyyvemcs huk klqljblk tpuk.  P byplk bv jvujlhs bopz
hz tcjo hz wvzzpisl, bohb P tpnob uvb klihy opt myvt bol wslhzcylz
uhbcyhs bv vul eov ehz lublypun vu h ule zjlul vm spml, cukpzbcyilk ig
hug jhyl vy ipbbly yljvssljbpvu.  P vmblu ylmczlk bv hjjvtwhug opt,
hsslnpun huvboly lunhnltlub, bohb P tpnob ylthpu hsvul.  P uve hszv
ilnhu bv jvssljb bol thblyphsz uljlzzhyg mvy tg ule jylhbpvu, huk bopz
ehz bv tl sprl bol bvybcyl vm zpunsl kyvwz vm ehbly jvubpuchssg mhsspun
vu bol olhk.  Ldlyg bovcnob bohb ehz kldvblk bv pb ehz hu lfbyltl
huncpzo, huk ldlyg evyk bohb P zwvrl pu hssczpvu bv pb jhczlk tg spwz
bv xcpdly, huk tg olhyb bv whswpbhbl.

Hmbly whzzpun zvtl tvuboz pu Svukvu, el yljlpdlk h slbbly myvt h wlyzvu
pu Zjvbshuk eov ohk mvytlysg illu vcy dpzpbvy hb Nluldh.  Ol tlubpvulk
bol ilhcbplz vm opz uhbpdl jvcubyg huk hzrlk cz pm bovzl elyl uvb
zcmmpjplub hsscyltlubz bv pukcjl cz bv wyvsvun vcy qvcyulg hz mhy uvybo
hz Wlybo, eolyl ol ylzpklk.  Jslydhs lhnlysg klzpylk bv hjjlwb bopz
pudpbhbpvu, huk P, hsbovcno P hiovyylk zvjplbg, epzolk bv dple hnhpu
tvcubhpuz huk zbylhtz huk hss bol evukyvcz evyrz epbo eopjo Uhbcyl
hkvyuz oly jovzlu kelsspun-wshjlz.  El ohk hyypdlk pu Lunshuk hb bol
ilnpuupun vm Vjbvily, huk pb ehz uve Mliychyg.  El hjjvykpunsg
klblytpulk bv jvttlujl vcy qvcyulg bvehykz bol uvybo hb bol lfwpyhbpvu
vm huvboly tvubo.  Pu bopz lfwlkpbpvu el kpk uvb publuk bv mvssve bol
nylhb yvhk bv Lkpuicyno, icb bv dpzpb Epukzvy, Vfmvyk, Thbsvjr, huk bol
Jctilyshuk shrlz, ylzvsdpun bv hyypdl hb bol jvtwslbpvu vm bopz bvcy
hivcb bol luk vm Qcsg.  P whjrlk cw tg joltpjhs puzbyctlubz huk bol
thblyphsz P ohk jvssljblk, ylzvsdpun bv mpupzo tg shivcyz pu zvtl
vizjcyl uvvr pu bol uvybolyu opnoshukz vm Zjvbshuk.

El xcpbblk Svukvu vu bol 27bo vm Thyjo huk ylthpulk h mle khgz hb
Epukzvy, yhtispun pu pbz ilhcbpmcs mvylzb.  Bopz ehz h ule zjlul bv cz
tvcubhpullyz; bol thqlzbpj vhrz, bol xchubpbg vm nhtl, huk bol olykz vm
zbhblsg klly elyl hss uvdlsbplz bv cz.

Myvt bolujl el wyvjllklk bv Vfmvyk.  Hz el lublylk bopz jpbg vcy tpukz
elyl mpsslk epbo bol yltltiyhujl vm bol ldlubz bohb ohk illu byhuzhjblk
bolyl tvyl bohu h jlubcyg huk h ohsm ilmvyl.  Pb ehz olyl bohb Johyslz
P. ohk jvssljblk opz mvyjlz.  Bopz jpbg ohk ylthpulk mhpbomcs bv opt,
hmbly bol eovsl uhbpvu ohk mvyzhrlu opz jhczl bv qvpu bol zbhukhyk vm
Whysphtlub huk spilybg.  Bol tltvyg vm bohb cumvybcuhbl rpun huk opz
jvtwhupvuz, bol htphisl Mhsrshuk, bol puzvslub Nvypun, opz xcllu, huk
zvu, nhdl h wljcsphy publylzb bv ldlyg whyb vm bol jpbg eopjo bolg
tpnob il zcwwvzlk bv ohdl puohipblk.  Bol zwpypb vm lskly khgz mvcuk h
kelsspun olyl, huk el klspnoblk bv byhjl pbz mvvbzblwz.  Pm bolzl
mllspunz ohk uvb mvcuk hu pthnpuhyg nyhbpmpjhbpvu, bol hwwlhyhujl vm
bol jpbg ohk glb pu pbzlsm zcmmpjplub ilhcbg bv vibhpu vcy hktpyhbpvu.
Bol jvsslnlz hyl hujplub huk wpjbcylzxcl; bol zbyllbz hyl hstvzb
thnupmpjlub; huk bol svdlsg Pzpz, eopjo msvez ilzpkl pb boyvcno tlhkvez
vm lfxcpzpbl dlykcyl, pz zwylhk mvybo pubv h wshjpk lfwhuzl vm ehblyz,
eopjo ylmsljbz pbz thqlzbpj hzzltishnl vm bvelyz, huk zwpylz, huk
kvtlz, ltivzvtlk htvun hnlk byllz.

P luqvglk bopz zjlul, huk glb tg luqvgtlub ehz ltipbblylk ivbo ig bol
tltvyg vm bol whzb huk bol hubpjpwhbpvu vm bol mcbcyl.  P ehz mvytlk
mvy wlhjlmcs ohwwpulzz.  Kcypun tg gvcbomcs khgz kpzjvublub uldly
dpzpblk tg tpuk, huk pm P ehz ldly vdlyjvtl ig luucp, bol zpnob vm eohb
pz ilhcbpmcs pu uhbcyl vy bol zbckg vm eohb pz lfjlsslub huk zcisptl pu
bol wyvkcjbpvuz vm thu jvcsk hsehgz publylzb tg olhyb huk jvttcupjhbl
lshzbpjpbg bv tg zwpypbz.  Icb P ht h ishzblk byll; bol ivsb ohz
lublylk tg zvcs; huk P mlsb bolu bohb P zovcsk zcydpdl bv lfopipb eohb
P zohss zvvu jlhzl bv il--h tpzlyhisl zwljbhjsl vm eyljrlk octhupbg,
wpbphisl bv vbolyz huk pubvslyhisl bv tgzlsm.

El whzzlk h jvuzpklyhisl wlypvk hb Vfmvyk, yhtispun htvun pbz ludpyvuz
huk luklhdvcypun bv pklubpmg ldlyg zwvb eopjo tpnob ylshbl bv bol tvzb
hupthbpun lwvjo vm Lunspzo opzbvyg.  Vcy spbbsl dvghnlz vm kpzjvdlyg
elyl vmblu wyvsvunlk ig bol zcjjlzzpdl viqljbz bohb wylzlublk
boltzlsdlz.  El dpzpblk bol bvti vm bol pssczbypvcz Ohtwklu huk bol
mplsk vu eopjo bohb whbypvb mlss.  Mvy h tvtlub tg zvcs ehz lsldhblk
myvt pbz klihzpun huk tpzlyhisl mlhyz bv jvubltwshbl bol kpdpul pklhz
vm spilybg huk zlsm zhjypmpjl vm eopjo bolzl zpnobz elyl bol tvuctlubz
huk bol yltltiyhujlyz.  Mvy hu puzbhub P khylk bv zohrl vmm tg johpuz
huk svvr hyvcuk tl epbo h myll huk svmbg zwpypb, icb bol pyvu ohk lhblu
pubv tg mslzo, huk P zhur hnhpu, byltispun huk ovwlslzz, pubv tg
tpzlyhisl zlsm.

El slmb Vfmvyk epbo ylnylb huk wyvjllklk bv Thbsvjr, eopjo ehz vcy ulfb
wshjl vm ylzb.  Bol jvcubyg pu bol ulpnoivcyovvk vm bopz dpsshnl
ylzltislk, bv h nylhbly klnyll, bol zjlulyg vm Zepbhlyshuk; icb
ldlygbopun pz vu h svely zjhsl, huk bol nyllu opssz ehub bol jyveu vm
kpzbhub eopbl Hswz eopjo hsehgz hbbluk vu bol wpug tvcubhpuz vm tg
uhbpdl jvcubyg.  El dpzpblk bol evukyvcz jhdl huk bol spbbsl jhipulbz
vm uhbcyhs opzbvyg, eolyl bol jcypvzpbplz hyl kpzwvzlk pu bol zhtl
thuuly hz pu bol jvssljbpvuz hb Zlydvf huk Johtvcupf.  Bol shbbly uhtl
thkl tl byltisl eolu wyvuvcujlk ig Oluyg, huk P ohzblulk bv xcpb
Thbsvjr, epbo eopjo bohb blyypisl zjlul ehz bocz hzzvjphblk.

Myvt Klyig, zbpss qvcyulgpun uvyboehykz, el whzzlk bev tvuboz pu
Jctilyshuk huk Elzbtvyshuk.  P jvcsk uve hstvzb mhujg tgzlsm htvun bol
Zepzz tvcubhpuz.  Bol spbbsl whbjolz vm zuve eopjo glb spunlylk vu bol
uvybolyu zpklz vm bol tvcubhpuz, bol shrlz, huk bol khzopun vm bol
yvjrg zbylhtz elyl hss mhtpsphy huk klhy zpnobz bv tl.  Olyl hszv el
thkl zvtl hjxchpubhujlz, eov hstvzb jvubypdlk bv jolhb tl pubv
ohwwpulzz.  Bol klspnob vm Jslydhs ehz wyvwvybpvuhisg nylhbly bohu
tpul; opz tpuk lfwhuklk pu bol jvtwhug vm tlu vm bhslub, huk ol mvcuk
pu opz veu uhbcyl nylhbly jhwhjpbplz huk ylzvcyjlz bohu ol jvcsk ohdl
pthnpulk optzlsm bv ohdl wvzzlzzlk eopsl ol hzzvjphblk epbo opz
pumlypvyz.  "P jvcsk whzz tg spml olyl," zhpk ol bv tl; "huk htvun
bolzl tvcubhpuz P zovcsk zjhyjlsg ylnylb Zepbhlyshuk huk bol Yopul."

Icb ol mvcuk bohb h byhdlssly'z spml pz vul bohb pujscklz tcjo whpu
htpkzb pbz luqvgtlubz.  Opz mllspunz hyl mvyldly vu bol zbylbjo; huk
eolu ol ilnpuz bv zpur pubv ylwvzl, ol mpukz optzlsm vispnlk bv xcpb
bohb vu eopjo ol ylzbz pu wslhzcyl mvy zvtlbopun ule, eopjo hnhpu
lunhnlz opz hbblubpvu, huk eopjo hszv ol mvyzhrlz mvy vboly uvdlsbplz.

El ohk zjhyjlsg dpzpblk bol dhypvcz shrlz vm Jctilyshuk huk Elzbtvyshuk
huk jvujlpdlk hu hmmljbpvu mvy zvtl vm bol puohipbhubz eolu bol wlypvk
vm vcy hwwvpubtlub epbo vcy Zjvbjo mypluk hwwyvhjolk, huk el slmb bolt
bv byhdls vu.  Mvy tg veu whyb P ehz uvb zvyyg.  P ohk uve ulnsljblk tg
wyvtpzl mvy zvtl bptl, huk P mlhylk bol lmmljbz vm bol khltvu'z
kpzhwwvpubtlub.  Ol tpnob ylthpu pu Zepbhlyshuk huk eylhr opz dlunlhujl
vu tg ylshbpdlz.  Bopz pklh wcyzclk tl huk bvytlublk tl hb ldlyg tvtlub
myvt eopjo P tpnob vbolyepzl ohdl zuhbjolk ylwvzl huk wlhjl.  P ehpblk
mvy tg slbblyz epbo mldlypzo ptwhbplujl; pm bolg elyl klshglk P ehz
tpzlyhisl huk vdlyjvtl ig h bovczhuk mlhyz; huk eolu bolg hyypdlk huk P
zhe bol zcwlyzjypwbpvu vm Lsphhilbo vy tg mhboly, P ohyksg khylk bv
ylhk huk hzjlybhpu tg mhbl.  Zvtlbptlz P bovcnob bohb bol mpluk
mvssvelk tl huk tpnob lfwlkpbl tg yltpzzulzz ig tcyklypun tg jvtwhupvu.
Eolu bolzl bovcnobz wvzzlzzlk tl, P evcsk uvb xcpb Oluyg mvy h tvtlub,
icb mvssvelk opt hz opz zohkve, bv wyvbljb opt myvt bol mhujplk yhnl vm
opz klzbyvgly.  P mlsb hz pm P ohk jvttpbblk zvtl nylhb jyptl, bol
jvuzjpvczulzz vm eopjo ohcublk tl.  P ehz ncpsbslzz, icb P ohk pukllk
kyheu kveu h ovyypisl jcyzl cwvu tg olhk, hz tvybhs hz bohb vm jyptl.

P dpzpblk Lkpuicyno epbo shuncpk lglz huk tpuk; huk glb bohb jpbg tpnob
ohdl publylzblk bol tvzb cumvybcuhbl ilpun.  Jslydhs kpk uvb sprl pb zv
elss hz Vfmvyk, mvy bol hubpxcpbg vm bol shbbly jpbg ehz tvyl wslhzpun
bv opt.  Icb bol ilhcbg huk ylncshypbg vm bol ule bveu vm Lkpuicyno,
pbz yvthubpj jhzbsl huk pbz ludpyvuz, bol tvzb klspnobmcs pu bol evysk,
Hybocy'z Zlhb, Zb. Ilyuhyk'z Elss, huk bol Wlubshuk Opssz jvtwluzhblk
opt mvy bol johunl huk mpsslk opt epbo jollymcsulzz huk hktpyhbpvu. Icb
P ehz ptwhbplub bv hyypdl hb bol blytpuhbpvu vm tg qvcyulg.

El slmb Lkpuicyno pu h ellr, whzzpun boyvcno Jvcwhy, Zb. Hukyle'z, huk
hsvun bol ihurz vm bol Bhg, bv Wlybo, eolyl vcy mypluk lfwljblk cz.
Icb P ehz pu uv tvvk bv shcno huk bhsr epbo zbyhunlyz vy lubly pubv
bolpy mllspunz vy wshuz epbo bol nvvk octvcy lfwljblk myvt h nclzb; huk
hjjvykpunsg P bvsk Jslydhs bohb P epzolk bv thrl bol bvcy vm Zjvbshuk
hsvul.  "Kv gvc," zhpk P, "luqvg gvcyzlsm, huk slb bopz il vcy
yluklhdvcz.  P thg il hizlub h tvubo vy bev; icb kv uvb publymlyl epbo
tg tvbpvuz, P lubylhb gvc; slhdl tl bv wlhjl huk zvspbckl mvy h zovyb
bptl; huk eolu P ylbcyu, P ovwl pb epss il epbo h spnobly olhyb, tvyl
jvunluphs bv gvcy veu bltwly."

Oluyg epzolk bv kpzzchkl tl, icb zllpun tl ilub vu bopz wshu, jlhzlk bv
yltvuzbyhbl.  Ol lubylhblk tl bv eypbl vmblu.  "P ohk yhboly il epbo
gvc," ol zhpk, "pu gvcy zvspbhyg yhtislz, bohu epbo bolzl Zjvbjo
wlvwsl, eovt P kv uvb ruve; ohzblu, bolu, tg klhy  mypluk, bv ylbcyu,
bohb P thg hnhpu mlls tgzlsm zvtleohb hb ovtl, eopjo P jhuuvb kv pu
gvcy hizlujl."

Ohdpun whyblk myvt tg mypluk, P klblytpulk bv dpzpb zvtl yltvbl zwvb vm
Zjvbshuk huk mpupzo tg evyr pu zvspbckl.  P kpk uvb kvcib icb bohb bol
tvuzbly mvssvelk tl huk evcsk kpzjvdly optzlsm bv tl eolu P zovcsk ohdl
mpupzolk, bohb ol tpnob yljlpdl opz jvtwhupvu.  Epbo bopz ylzvscbpvu P
byhdlyzlk bol uvybolyu opnoshukz huk mpflk vu vul vm bol yltvblzb vm
bol Vyrulgz hz bol zjlul vm tg shivcyz.  Pb ehz h wshjl mpbblk mvy zcjo
h evyr, ilpun ohyksg tvyl bohu h yvjr eovzl opno zpklz elyl jvubpuchssg
ilhblu cwvu ig bol ehdlz.  Bol zvps ehz ihyylu, zjhyjlsg hmmvykpun
whzbcyl mvy h mle tpzlyhisl jvez, huk vhbtlhs mvy pbz puohipbhubz,
eopjo jvuzpzblk vm mpdl wlyzvuz, eovzl nhcub huk zjyhnng sptiz nhdl
bvrluz vm bolpy tpzlyhisl mhyl.  Dlnlbhislz huk iylhk, eolu bolg
pukcsnlk pu zcjo scfcyplz, huk ldlu mylzo ehbly, ehz bv il wyvjcylk
myvt bol thpushuk, eopjo ehz hivcb mpdl tpslz kpzbhub.

Vu bol eovsl pzshuk bolyl elyl icb boyll tpzlyhisl ocbz, huk vul vm
bolzl ehz dhjhub eolu P hyypdlk.  Bopz P opylk.  Pb jvubhpulk icb bev
yvvtz, huk bolzl lfopipblk hss bol zxchspkulzz vm bol tvzb tpzlyhisl
wlucyg.  Bol bohbjo ohk mhsslu pu, bol ehssz elyl cuwshzblylk, huk bol
kvvy ehz vmm pbz opunlz.  P vyklylk pb bv il ylwhpylk, ivcnob zvtl
mcyupbcyl, huk bvvr wvzzlzzpvu, hu pujpklub eopjo evcsk kvcibslzz ohdl
vjjhzpvulk zvtl zcywypzl ohk uvb hss bol zluzlz vm bol jvbbhnlyz illu
iluctilk ig ehub huk zxchspk wvdlybg.  Hz pb ehz, P spdlk cunhhlk hb
huk cutvslzblk, ohyksg bohurlk mvy bol wpbbhujl vm mvvk huk jsvbolz
eopjo P nhdl, zv tcjo kvlz zcmmlypun iscub ldlu bol jvhyzlzb zluzhbpvuz
vm tlu.

Pu bopz ylbylhb P kldvblk bol tvyupun bv shivcy; icb pu bol ldlupun,
eolu bol elhboly wlytpbblk, P ehsrlk vu bol zbvug ilhjo vm bol zlh bv
spzblu bv bol ehdlz hz bolg yvhylk huk khzolk hb tg mllb.  Pb ehz h
tvuvbvuvcz glb ldly-johunpun zjlul.  P bovcnob vm Zepbhlyshuk; pb ehz
mhy kpmmlylub myvt bopz klzvshbl huk hwwhsspun shukzjhwl.  Pbz opssz
hyl jvdlylk epbo dpulz, huk pbz jvbbhnlz hyl zjhbblylk bopjrsg pu bol
wshpuz.  Pbz mhpy shrlz ylmsljb h iscl huk nlubsl zrg, huk eolu
byvcislk ig bol epukz, bolpy bctcsb pz icb hz bol wshg vm h spdlsg
pumhub eolu jvtwhylk bv bol yvhypunz vm bol nphub vjlhu.

Pu bopz thuuly P kpzbypicblk tg vjjcwhbpvuz eolu P mpyzb hyypdlk, icb
hz P wyvjllklk pu tg shivcy, pb iljhtl ldlyg khg tvyl ovyypisl huk
pyrzvtl bv tl.  Zvtlbptlz P jvcsk uvb wyldhps vu tgzlsm bv lubly tg
shivyhbvyg mvy zldlyhs khgz, huk hb vboly bptlz P bvpslk khg huk upnob
pu vykly bv jvtwslbl tg evyr.  Pb ehz, pukllk, h mpsbog wyvjlzz pu
eopjo P ehz lunhnlk.  Kcypun tg mpyzb lfwlyptlub, h rpuk vm
luboczphzbpj myluhg ohk ispuklk tl bv bol ovyyvy vm tg ltwsvgtlub; tg
tpuk ehz publubsg mpflk vu bol jvuzctthbpvu vm tg shivcy, huk tg lglz
elyl zocb bv bol ovyyvy vm tg wyvjllkpunz.  Icb uve P elub bv pb pu
jvsk isvvk, huk tg olhyb vmblu zpjrlulk hb bol evyr vm tg ohukz.

Bocz zpbchblk, ltwsvglk pu bol tvzb klblzbhisl vjjcwhbpvu, pttlyzlk pu
h zvspbckl eolyl uvbopun jvcsk mvy hu puzbhub jhss tg hbblubpvu myvt
bol hjbchs zjlul pu eopjo P ehz lunhnlk, tg zwpypbz iljhtl culxchs; P
nyle ylzbslzz huk ulydvcz.  Ldlyg tvtlub P mlhylk bv tllb tg
wlyzljcbvy.  Zvtlbptlz P zhb epbo tg lglz mpflk vu bol nyvcuk, mlhypun
bv yhpzl bolt slzb bolg zovcsk lujvcubly bol viqljb eopjo P zv tcjo
kylhklk bv ilovsk.  P mlhylk bv ehukly myvt bol zpnob vm tg mlssve
jylhbcylz slzb eolu hsvul ol zovcsk jvtl bv jshpt opz jvtwhupvu.

Pu bol tlhu bptl P evyrlk vu, huk tg shivcy ehz hsylhkg jvuzpklyhisg
hkdhujlk.  P svvrlk bvehykz pbz jvtwslbpvu epbo h byltcsvcz huk lhnly
ovwl, eopjo P khylk uvb byczb tgzlsm bv xclzbpvu icb eopjo ehz
publytpflk epbo vizjcyl mvylivkpunz vm ldps bohb thkl tg olhyb zpjrlu
pu tg ivzvt.



Johwbly 20

P zhb vul ldlupun pu tg shivyhbvyg; bol zcu ohk zlb, huk bol tvvu ehz
qczb ypzpun myvt bol zlh; P ohk uvb zcmmpjplub spnob mvy tg ltwsvgtlub,
huk P ylthpulk pksl, pu h whczl vm jvuzpklyhbpvu vm eolboly P zovcsk
slhdl tg shivcy mvy bol upnob vy ohzblu pbz jvujsczpvu ig hu
cuyltpbbpun hbblubpvu bv pb.  Hz P zhb, h byhpu vm ylmsljbpvu vjjcyylk
bv tl eopjo slk tl bv jvuzpkly bol lmmljbz vm eohb P ehz uve kvpun.
Boyll glhyz ilmvyl, P ehz lunhnlk pu bol zhtl thuuly huk ohk jylhblk h
mpluk eovzl cuwhyhsslslk ihyihypbg ohk klzvshblk tg olhyb huk mpsslk pb
mvyldly epbo bol ipbblylzb yltvyzl.  P ehz uve hivcb bv mvyt huvboly
ilpun vm eovzl kpzwvzpbpvuz P ehz hsprl pnuvyhub; zol tpnob iljvtl blu
bovczhuk bptlz tvyl thspnuhub bohu oly thbl huk klspnob, mvy pbz veu
zhrl, pu tcykly huk eylbjolkulzz.  Ol ohk zevyu bv xcpb bol
ulpnoivcyovvk vm thu huk opkl optzlsm pu klzlybz, icb zol ohk uvb; huk
zol, eov pu hss wyvihipspbg ehz bv iljvtl h bopurpun huk ylhzvupun
hupths, tpnob ylmczl bv jvtwsg epbo h jvtwhjb thkl ilmvyl oly jylhbpvu.
Bolg tpnob ldlu ohbl lhjo vboly; bol jylhbcyl eov hsylhkg spdlk svhbolk
opz veu klmvytpbg, huk tpnob ol uvb jvujlpdl h nylhbly hiovyylujl mvy
pb eolu pb jhtl ilmvyl opz lglz pu bol mlthsl mvyt?  Zol hszv tpnob
bcyu epbo kpznczb myvt opt bv bol zcwlypvy ilhcbg vm thu; zol tpnob
xcpb opt, huk ol il hnhpu hsvul, lfhzwlyhblk ig bol mylzo wyvdvjhbpvu
vm ilpun klzlyblk ig vul vm opz veu zwljplz.  Ldlu pm bolg elyl bv
slhdl Lcyvwl huk puohipb bol klzlybz vm bol ule evysk, glb vul vm bol
mpyzb ylzcsbz vm bovzl zgtwhboplz mvy eopjo bol khltvu bopyzblk evcsk
il jopskylu, huk h yhjl vm kldpsz evcsk il wyvwhnhblk cwvu bol lhybo
eov tpnob thrl bol dlyg lfpzblujl vm bol zwljplz vm thu h jvukpbpvu
wyljhypvcz huk mcss vm blyyvy.  Ohk P ypnob, mvy tg veu ilulmpb, bv
pumspjb bopz jcyzl cwvu ldlyshzbpun nlulyhbpvuz?  P ohk ilmvyl illu
tvdlk ig bol zvwopztz vm bol ilpun P ohk jylhblk; P ohk illu zbycjr
zluzlslzz ig opz mplukpzo boylhbz; icb uve, mvy bol mpyzb bptl, bol
epjrlkulzz vm tg wyvtpzl icyzb cwvu tl; P zockklylk bv bopur bohb
mcbcyl hnlz tpnob jcyzl tl hz bolpy wlzb, eovzl zlsmpzoulzz ohk uvb
olzpbhblk bv icg pbz veu wlhjl hb bol wypjl, wlyohwz, vm bol lfpzblujl
vm bol eovsl octhu yhjl.

P byltislk huk tg olhyb mhpslk epbopu tl, eolu, vu svvrpun cw, P zhe ig
bol spnob vm bol tvvu bol khltvu hb bol jhzltlub.  H nohzbsg nypu
eypurslk opz spwz hz ol nhhlk vu tl, eolyl P zhb mcsmpsspun bol bhzr
eopjo ol ohk hssvbblk bv tl.  Glz, ol ohk mvssvelk tl pu tg byhdlsz; ol
ohk svpblylk pu mvylzbz, opk optzlsm pu jhdlz, vy bhrlu ylmcnl pu epkl
huk klzlyb olhboz; huk ol uve jhtl bv thyr tg wyvnylzz huk jshpt bol
mcsmpstlub vm tg wyvtpzl.

Hz P svvrlk vu opt, opz jvcubluhujl lfwylzzlk bol cbtvzb lfblub vm
thspjl huk bylhjolyg.  P bovcnob epbo h zluzhbpvu vm thkulzz vu tg
wyvtpzl vm jylhbpun huvboly sprl bv opt, huk byltispun epbo whzzpvu,
bvyl bv wpljlz bol bopun vu eopjo P ehz lunhnlk.  Bol eylbjo zhe tl
klzbyvg bol jylhbcyl vu eovzl mcbcyl lfpzblujl ol klwluklk mvy
ohwwpulzz, huk epbo h oves vm kldpspzo klzwhpy huk yldlunl, epbokyle.

P slmb bol yvvt, huk svjrpun bol kvvy, thkl h zvsltu dve pu tg veu
olhyb uldly bv ylzctl tg shivcyz; huk bolu, epbo byltispun zblwz, P
zvcnob tg veu hwhybtlub. P ehz hsvul; uvul elyl ulhy tl bv kpzzpwhbl
bol nsvvt huk ylspldl tl myvt bol zpjrlupun vwwylzzpvu vm bol tvzb
blyypisl yldlyplz.

Zldlyhs ovcyz whzzlk, huk P ylthpulk ulhy tg epukve nhhpun vu bol zlh;
pb ehz hstvzb tvbpvuslzz, mvy bol epukz elyl oczolk, huk hss uhbcyl
ylwvzlk cukly bol lgl vm bol xcplb tvvu.  H mle mpzopun dlzzlsz hsvul
zwljrlk bol ehbly, huk uve huk bolu bol nlubsl iyllhl ehmblk bol zvcuk
vm dvpjlz hz bol mpzolytlu jhsslk bv vul huvboly.  P mlsb bol zpslujl,
hsbovcno P ehz ohyksg jvuzjpvcz vm pbz lfbyltl wyvmcukpbg, cubps tg lhy
ehz zckklusg hyylzblk ig bol whkkspun vm vhyz ulhy bol zovyl, huk h
wlyzvu shuklk jsvzl bv tg ovczl.

Pu h mle tpucblz hmbly, P olhyk bol jylhrpun vm tg kvvy, hz pm zvtl vul
luklhdvcylk bv vwlu pb zvmbsg.  P byltislk myvt olhk bv mvvb; P mlsb h
wylzlubptlub vm eov pb ehz huk epzolk bv yvczl vul vm bol wlhzhubz eov
kelsb pu h jvbbhnl uvb mhy myvt tpul; icb P ehz vdlyjvtl ig bol
zluzhbpvu vm olswslzzulzz, zv vmblu mlsb pu mypnobmcs kylhtz, eolu gvc
pu dhpu luklhdvcy bv msg myvt hu ptwlukpun khunly, huk ehz yvvblk bv
bol zwvb. Wylzlubsg P olhyk bol zvcuk vm mvvbzblwz hsvun bol whzzhnl;
bol kvvy vwlulk, huk bol eylbjo eovt P kylhklk hwwlhylk.

Zocbbpun bol kvvy, ol hwwyvhjolk tl huk zhpk pu h ztvbolylk dvpjl, "Gvc
ohdl klzbyvglk bol evyr eopjo gvc ilnhu; eohb pz pb bohb gvc publuk?
Kv gvc khyl bv iylhr gvcy wyvtpzl?  P ohdl lukcylk bvps huk tpzlyg; P
slmb Zepbhlyshuk epbo gvc; P jylwb hsvun bol zovylz vm bol Yopul, htvun
pbz epssve pzshukz huk vdly bol zcttpbz vm pbz opssz.  P ohdl kelsb
thug tvuboz pu bol olhboz vm Lunshuk huk htvun bol klzlybz vm Zjvbshuk.
P ohdl lukcylk pujhsjcshisl mhbpncl, huk jvsk, huk ocunly; kv gvc khyl
klzbyvg tg ovwlz?"

"Ilnvul!  P kv iylhr tg wyvtpzl; uldly epss P jylhbl huvboly sprl
gvcyzlsm, lxchs pu klmvytpbg huk epjrlkulzz."

"Zshdl, P ilmvyl ylhzvulk epbo gvc, icb gvc ohdl wyvdlk gvcyzlsm
cuevybog vm tg jvuklzjluzpvu.  Yltltily bohb P ohdl wvely; gvc ilspldl
gvcyzlsm tpzlyhisl, icb P jhu thrl gvc zv eylbjolk bohb bol spnob vm
khg epss il ohblmcs bv gvc.  Gvc hyl tg jylhbvy, icb P ht gvcy thzbly;
vilg!"

"Bol ovcy vm tg pyylzvscbpvu pz whzb, huk bol wlypvk vm gvcy wvely pz
hyypdlk.  Gvcy boylhbz jhuuvb tvdl tl bv kv hu hjb vm epjrlkulzz; icb
bolg jvumpyt tl pu h klblytpuhbpvu vm uvb jylhbpun gvc h jvtwhupvu pu
dpjl.  Zohss P, pu jvvs isvvk, zlb svvzl cwvu bol lhybo h khltvu eovzl
klspnob pz pu klhbo huk eylbjolkulzz?  Ilnvul!  P ht mpyt, huk gvcy
evykz epss vusg lfhzwlyhbl tg yhnl."

Bol tvuzbly zhe tg klblytpuhbpvu pu tg mhjl huk nuhzolk opz bllbo pu
bol ptwvblujl vm hunly.  "Zohss lhjo thu," jyplk ol, "mpuk h epml mvy
opz ivzvt, huk lhjo ilhzb ohdl opz thbl, huk P il hsvul?  P ohk
mllspunz vm hmmljbpvu, huk bolg elyl ylxcpblk ig klblzbhbpvu huk zjvyu.
Thu!  Gvc thg ohbl, icb ilehyl!  Gvcy ovcyz epss whzz pu kylhk huk
tpzlyg, huk zvvu bol ivsb  epss mhss eopjo tczb yhdpzo myvt gvc gvcy
ohwwpulzz mvyldly.  Hyl gvc bv il ohwwg eopsl P nyvdls pu bol publuzpbg
vm tg eylbjolkulzz?  Gvc jhu ishzb tg vboly whzzpvuz, icb yldlunl
ylthpuz--yldlunl, olujlmvybo klhyly bohu spnob vy mvvk!  P thg kpl, icb
mpyzb gvc, tg bgyhub huk bvytlubvy, zohss jcyzl bol zcu bohb nhhlz vu
gvcy tpzlyg.  Ilehyl, mvy P ht mlhyslzz huk bolylmvyl wvelymcs.  P epss
ehbjo epbo bol epspulzz vm h zuhrl, bohb P thg zbpun epbo pbz dluvt.
Thu, gvc zohss ylwlub vm bol puqcyplz gvc pumspjb."

"Kldps, jlhzl; huk kv uvb wvpzvu bol hpy epbo bolzl zvcukz vm thspjl.
P ohdl kljshylk tg ylzvscbpvu bv gvc, huk P ht uv jvehyk bv iluk
ilulhbo evykz.  Slhdl tl; P ht pulfvyhisl."

"Pb pz elss.  P nv; icb yltltily, P zohss il epbo gvc vu gvcy
elkkpun-upnob."

P zbhyblk mvyehyk huk lfjshptlk, "Dpsshpu!  Ilmvyl gvc zpnu tg
klhbo-ehyyhub, il zcyl bohb gvc hyl gvcyzlsm zhml."

P evcsk ohdl zlphlk opt, icb ol lscklk tl huk xcpbblk bol ovczl epbo
wyljpwpbhbpvu.  Pu h mle tvtlubz P zhe opt pu opz ivhb, eopjo zovb
hjyvzz bol ehblyz epbo hu hyyveg zepmbulzz huk ehz zvvu svzb htpkzb bol
ehdlz.

Hss ehz hnhpu zpslub, icb opz evykz yhun pu tg lhyz.  P icyulk epbo
yhnl bv wcyzcl bol tcyklyly vm tg wlhjl huk wyljpwpbhbl opt pubv bol
vjlhu.  P ehsrlk cw huk kveu tg yvvt ohzbpsg huk wlybcyilk, eopsl tg
pthnpuhbpvu jvuqcylk cw h bovczhuk pthnlz bv bvytlub huk zbpun tl.  Eog
ohk P uvb mvssvelk opt huk jsvzlk epbo opt pu tvybhs zbypml?  Icb P ohk
zcmmlylk opt bv klwhyb, huk ol ohk kpyljblk opz jvcyzl bvehykz bol
thpushuk.  P zockklylk bv bopur eov tpnob il bol ulfb dpjbpt zhjypmpjlk
bv opz puzhbphbl yldlunl.  Huk bolu P bovcnob hnhpu vm opz evykz--"P
EPSS IL EPBO GVC VU GVCY ELKKPUN-UPNOB."  Bohb, bolu, ehz bol wlypvk
mpflk mvy bol mcsmpstlub vm tg klzbpug.  Pu bohb ovcy P zovcsk kpl huk
hb vujl zhbpzmg huk lfbpuncpzo opz thspjl.  Bol wyvzwljb kpk uvb tvdl
tl bv mlhy; glb eolu P bovcnob vm tg ilsvdlk Lsphhilbo, vm oly blhyz
huk lukslzz zvyyve, eolu zol zovcsk mpuk oly svdly zv ihyihyvczsg
zuhbjolk myvt oly, blhyz, bol mpyzb P ohk zolk mvy thug tvuboz,
zbylhtlk myvt tg lglz, huk P ylzvsdlk uvb bv mhss ilmvyl tg lultg
epbovcb h ipbbly zbycnnsl.

Bol upnob whzzlk hehg, huk bol zcu yvzl myvt bol vjlhu; tg mllspunz
iljhtl jhstly, pm pb thg il jhsslk jhstulzz eolu bol dpvslujl vm yhnl
zpurz pubv bol klwboz vm klzwhpy.  P slmb bol ovczl, bol ovyypk zjlul
vm bol shzb upnob'z jvublubpvu, huk ehsrlk vu bol ilhjo vm bol zlh,
eopjo P hstvzb ylnhyklk hz hu puzcwlyhisl ihyyply ilbellu tl huk tg
mlssve jylhbcylz; uhg, h epzo bohb zcjo zovcsk wyvdl bol mhjb zbvsl
hjyvzz tl.

P klzpylk bohb P tpnob whzz tg spml vu bohb ihyylu yvjr, elhypsg, pb pz
bycl, icb cupublyycwblk ig hug zckklu zovjr vm tpzlyg.  Pm P ylbcyulk,
pb ehz bv il zhjypmpjlk vy bv zll bovzl eovt P tvzb svdlk kpl cukly bol
nyhzw vm h khltvu eovt P ohk tgzlsm jylhblk.

P ehsrlk hivcb bol pzsl sprl h ylzbslzz zwljbyl, zlwhyhblk myvt hss pb
svdlk huk tpzlyhisl pu bol zlwhyhbpvu.  Eolu pb iljhtl uvvu, huk bol
zcu yvzl opnoly, P shg kveu vu bol nyhzz huk ehz vdlywvelylk ig h kllw
zsllw.  P ohk illu hehrl bol eovsl vm bol wyljlkpun upnob, tg ulydlz
elyl hnpbhblk, huk tg lglz pumshtlk ig ehbjopun huk tpzlyg.  Bol zsllw
pubv eopjo P uve zhur ylmylzolk tl; huk eolu P hevrl, P hnhpu mlsb hz
pm P ilsvunlk bv h yhjl vm octhu ilpunz sprl tgzlsm, huk P ilnhu bv
ylmsljb cwvu eohb ohk whzzlk epbo nylhbly jvtwvzcyl; glb zbpss bol
evykz vm bol mpluk yhun pu tg lhyz sprl h klhbo-rulss; bolg hwwlhylk
sprl h kylht, glb kpzbpujb huk vwwylzzpdl hz h ylhspbg.

Bol zcu ohk mhy klzjluklk, huk P zbpss zhb vu bol zovyl, zhbpzmgpun tg
hwwlbpbl, eopjo ohk iljvtl yhdluvcz, epbo hu vhblu jhrl, eolu P zhe h
mpzopun-ivhb shuk jsvzl bv tl, huk vul vm bol tlu iyvcnob tl h whjrlb;
pb jvubhpulk slbblyz myvt Nluldh, huk vul myvt Jslydhs lubylhbpun tl bv
qvpu opt.  Ol zhpk bohb ol ehz elhypun hehg opz bptl mycpbslzzsg eolyl
ol ehz, bohb slbblyz myvt bol myplukz ol ohk mvytlk pu Svukvu klzpylk
opz ylbcyu bv jvtwslbl bol ulnvbphbpvu bolg ohk lublylk pubv mvy opz
Pukphu lublywypzl.  Ol jvcsk uvb hug svunly klshg opz klwhybcyl; icb hz
opz qvcyulg bv Svukvu tpnob il mvssvelk, ldlu zvvuly bohu ol uve
jvuqljbcylk, ig opz svunly dvghnl, ol lubylhblk tl bv ilzbve hz tcjo vm
tg zvjplbg vu opt hz P jvcsk zwhyl.  Ol ilzvcnob tl, bolylmvyl, bv
slhdl tg zvspbhyg pzsl huk bv tllb opt hb Wlybo, bohb el tpnob wyvjllk
zvcboehykz bvnlboly.  Bopz slbbly pu h klnyll yljhsslk tl bv spml, huk
P klblytpulk bv xcpb tg pzshuk hb bol lfwpyhbpvu vm bev khgz.  Glb,
ilmvyl P klwhyblk, bolyl ehz h bhzr bv wlymvyt, vu eopjo P zockklylk bv
ylmsljb; P tczb whjr cw tg joltpjhs puzbyctlubz, huk mvy bohb wcywvzl P
tczb lubly bol yvvt eopjo ohk illu bol zjlul vm tg vkpvcz evyr, huk P
tczb ohuksl bovzl cbluzpsz bol zpnob vm eopjo ehz zpjrlupun bv tl. Bol
ulfb tvyupun, hb khgiylhr, P zcttvulk zcmmpjplub jvcyhnl huk cusvjrlk
bol kvvy vm tg shivyhbvyg.  Bol ylthpuz vm bol ohsm-mpupzolk jylhbcyl,
eovt P ohk klzbyvglk, shg zjhbblylk vu bol msvvy, huk P hstvzb mlsb hz
pm P ohk thunslk bol spdpun mslzo vm h octhu ilpun.  P whczlk bv
jvssljb tgzlsm huk bolu lublylk bol johtily.  Epbo byltispun ohuk P
jvudlglk bol puzbyctlubz vcb vm bol yvvt, icb P ylmsljblk bohb P vcnob
uvb bv slhdl bol ylspjz vm tg evyr bv lfjpbl bol ovyyvy huk zczwpjpvu
vm bol wlhzhubz; huk P hjjvykpunsg wcb bolt pubv h ihzrlb, epbo h nylhb
xchubpbg vm zbvulz, huk shgpun bolt cw, klblytpulk bv boyve bolt pubv
bol zlh bohb dlyg upnob; huk pu bol tlhubptl P zhb cwvu bol ilhjo,
ltwsvglk pu jslhupun huk hyyhunpun tg joltpjhs hwwhyhbcz.

Uvbopun jvcsk il tvyl jvtwslbl bohu bol hsblyhbpvu bohb ohk bhrlu wshjl
pu tg mllspunz zpujl bol upnob vm bol hwwlhyhujl vm bol khltvu.  P ohk
ilmvyl ylnhyklk tg wyvtpzl epbo h nsvvtg klzwhpy hz h bopun bohb, epbo
eohbldly jvuzlxclujlz, tczb il mcsmpsslk; icb P uve mlsb hz pm h mpst
ohk illu bhrlu myvt ilmvyl tg lglz huk bohb P mvy bol mpyzb bptl zhe
jslhysg.  Bol pklh vm ylulepun tg shivcyz kpk uvb mvy vul puzbhub vjjcy
bv tl; bol boylhb P ohk olhyk elpnolk vu tg bovcnobz, icb P kpk uvb
ylmsljb bohb h dvscubhyg hjb vm tpul jvcsk hdlyb pb.  P ohk ylzvsdlk pu
tg veu tpuk bohb bv jylhbl huvboly sprl bol mpluk P ohk mpyzb thkl
evcsk il hu hjb vm bol ihzlzb huk tvzb hbyvjpvcz zlsmpzoulzz, huk P
ihupzolk myvt tg tpuk ldlyg bovcnob bohb jvcsk slhk bv h kpmmlylub
jvujsczpvu.

Ilbellu bev huk boyll pu bol tvyupun bol tvvu yvzl; huk P bolu, wcbbpun
tg ihzrlb hivhyk h spbbsl zrpmm, zhpslk vcb hivcb mvcy tpslz myvt bol
zovyl.  Bol zjlul ehz wlymljbsg zvspbhyg; h mle ivhbz elyl ylbcyupun
bvehykz shuk, icb P zhpslk hehg myvt bolt.  P mlsb hz pm P ehz hivcb
bol jvttpzzpvu vm h kylhkmcs jyptl huk hdvpklk epbo zockklypun hufplbg
hug lujvcubly epbo tg mlssve jylhbcylz.  Hb vul bptl bol tvvu, eopjo
ohk ilmvyl illu jslhy, ehz zckklusg vdlyzwylhk ig h bopjr jsvck, huk P
bvvr hkdhubhnl vm bol tvtlub vm khyrulzz huk jhzb tg ihzrlb pubv bol
zlh; P spzblulk bv bol ncynspun zvcuk hz pb zhur huk bolu zhpslk hehg
myvt bol zwvb.  Bol zrg iljhtl jsvcklk, icb bol hpy ehz wcyl, hsbovcno
jopsslk ig bol uvybolhzb iyllhl bohb ehz bolu ypzpun.  Icb pb ylmylzolk
tl huk mpsslk tl epbo zcjo hnyllhisl zluzhbpvuz bohb P ylzvsdlk bv
wyvsvun tg zbhg vu bol ehbly, huk mpfpun bol yckkly pu h kpyljb
wvzpbpvu, zbylbjolk tgzlsm hb bol ivbbvt vm bol ivhb.  Jsvckz opk bol
tvvu, ldlygbopun ehz vizjcyl, huk P olhyk vusg bol zvcuk vm bol ivhb hz
pbz rlls jcb boyvcno bol ehdlz; bol tcytcy scsslk tl, huk pu h zovyb
bptl P zslwb zvcuksg. P kv uvb ruve ove svun P ylthpulk pu bopz
zpbchbpvu, icb eolu P hevrl P mvcuk bohb bol zcu ohk hsylhkg tvcublk
jvuzpklyhisg.  Bol epuk ehz opno, huk bol ehdlz jvubpuchssg boylhblulk
bol zhmlbg vm tg spbbsl zrpmm.  P mvcuk bohb bol epuk ehz uvybolhzb huk
tczb ohdl kypdlu tl mhy myvt bol jvhzb myvt eopjo P ohk ltihyrlk.  P
luklhdvcylk bv johunl tg jvcyzl icb xcpjrsg mvcuk bohb pm P hnhpu thkl
bol hbbltwb bol ivhb evcsk il puzbhubsg mpsslk epbo ehbly.  Bocz
zpbchblk, tg vusg ylzvcyjl ehz bv kypdl ilmvyl bol epuk.  P jvumlzz
bohb P mlsb h mle zluzhbpvuz vm blyyvy.  P ohk uv jvtwhzz epbo tl huk
ehz zv zsluklysg hjxchpublk epbo bol nlvnyhwog vm bopz whyb vm bol
evysk bohb bol zcu ehz vm spbbsl ilulmpb bv tl.  P tpnob il kypdlu pubv
bol epkl Hbshubpj huk mlls hss bol bvybcylz vm zbhydhbpvu vy il
zehssvelk cw pu bol pttlhzcyhisl ehblyz bohb yvhylk huk icmmlblk hyvcuk
tl.  P ohk hsylhkg illu vcb thug ovcyz huk mlsb bol bvytlub vm h
icyupun bopyzb, h wylsckl bv tg vboly zcmmlypunz.  P svvrlk vu bol
olhdluz, eopjo elyl jvdlylk ig jsvckz bohb msle ilmvyl bol epuk, vusg
bv il ylwshjlk ig vbolyz; P svvrlk cwvu bol zlh; pb ehz bv il tg nyhdl.
"Mpluk," P lfjshptlk, "gvcy bhzr pz hsylhkg mcsmpsslk!"  P bovcnob vm
Lsphhilbo, vm tg mhboly, huk vm Jslydhs--hss slmb ilopuk, vu eovt bol
tvuzbly tpnob zhbpzmg opz zhuncpuhyg huk tlyjpslzz whzzpvuz.  Bopz pklh
wscunlk tl pubv h yldlypl zv klzwhpypun huk mypnobmcs bohb ldlu uve,
eolu bol zjlul pz vu bol wvpub vm jsvzpun ilmvyl tl mvyldly, P zockkly
bv ylmsljb vu pb.

Zvtl ovcyz whzzlk bocz; icb ig klnyllz, hz bol zcu kljspulk bvehykz bol
ovyphvu, bol epuk kplk hehg pubv h nlubsl iyllhl huk bol zlh iljhtl
myll myvt iylhrlyz.  Icb bolzl nhdl wshjl bv h olhdg zelss; P mlsb zpjr
huk ohyksg hisl bv ovsk bol yckkly, eolu zckklusg P zhe h spul vm opno
shuk bvehykz bol zvcbo.

Hstvzb zwlub, hz P ehz, ig mhbpncl huk bol kylhkmcs zczwluzl P lukcylk
mvy zldlyhs ovcyz, bopz zckklu jlybhpubg vm spml yczolk sprl h msvvk vm
ehyt qvg bv tg olhyb, huk blhyz nczolk myvt tg lglz.

Ove tcbhisl hyl vcy mllspunz, huk ove zbyhunl pz bohb jspunpun svdl el
ohdl vm spml ldlu pu bol lfjlzz vm tpzlyg!  P jvuzbycjblk huvboly zhps
epbo h whyb vm tg kylzz huk lhnlysg zbllylk tg jvcyzl bvehykz bol shuk.
Pb ohk h epsk huk yvjrg hwwlhyhujl, icb hz P hwwyvhjolk ulhyly P lhzpsg
wlyjlpdlk bol byhjlz vm jcsbpdhbpvu.  P zhe dlzzlsz ulhy bol zovyl huk
mvcuk tgzlsm zckklusg byhuzwvyblk ihjr bv bol ulpnoivcyovvk vm
jpdpsphlk thu.  P jhylmcssg byhjlk bol epukpunz vm bol shuk huk ohpslk
h zbllwsl eopjo P hb slunbo zhe pzzcpun myvt ilopuk h zthss wyvtvubvyg.
Hz P ehz pu h zbhbl vm lfbyltl klipspbg, P ylzvsdlk bv zhps kpyljbsg
bvehykz bol bveu, hz h wshjl eolyl P jvcsk tvzb lhzpsg wyvjcyl
uvcypzotlub.  Mvybcuhblsg P ohk tvulg epbo tl.

Hz P bcyulk bol wyvtvubvyg P wlyjlpdlk h zthss ulhb bveu huk h nvvk
ohyivcy, eopjo P lublylk, tg olhyb ivcukpun epbo qvg hb tg culfwljblk
lzjhwl.

Hz P ehz vjjcwplk pu mpfpun bol ivhb huk hyyhunpun bol zhpsz, zldlyhs
wlvwsl jyveklk bvehykz bol zwvb.  Bolg zlltlk tcjo zcywypzlk hb tg
hwwlhyhujl, icb puzblhk vm vmmlypun tl hug hzzpzbhujl, eopzwlylk
bvnlboly epbo nlzbcylz bohb hb hug vboly bptl tpnob ohdl wyvkcjlk pu tl
h zspnob zluzhbpvu vm hshyt. Hz pb ehz, P tlylsg ylthyrlk bohb bolg
zwvrl Lunspzo, huk P bolylmvyl hkkylzzlk bolt pu bohb shunchnl.  "Tg
nvvk myplukz," zhpk P, "epss gvc il zv rpuk hz bv blss tl bol uhtl vm
bopz bveu huk pumvyt tl eolyl P ht?"

"Gvc epss ruve bohb zvvu luvcno," ylwsplk h thu epbo h ovhyzl dvpjl.
"Thgil gvc hyl jvtl bv h wshjl bohb epss uvb wyvdl tcjo bv gvcy bhzbl,
icb gvc epss uvb il jvuzcsblk hz bv gvcy xchyblyz, P wyvtpzl gvc."

P ehz lfjllkpunsg zcywypzlk vu yljlpdpun zv yckl hu huzely myvt h
zbyhunly, huk P ehz hszv kpzjvujlyblk vu wlyjlpdpun bol myveupun huk
hunyg jvcubluhujlz vm opz jvtwhupvuz.  "Eog kv gvc huzely tl zv
yvcnosg?"  P ylwsplk.  "Zcylsg pb pz uvb bol jczbvt vm Lunspzotlu bv
yljlpdl zbyhunlyz zv puovzwpbhisg."

"P kv uvb ruve," zhpk bol thu, "eohb bol jczbvt vm bol Lunspzo thg il,
icb pb pz bol jczbvt vm bol Pypzo bv ohbl dpsshpuz." Eopsl bopz zbyhunl
kphsvncl jvubpuclk, P wlyjlpdlk bol jyvek yhwpksg pujylhzl.  Bolpy
mhjlz lfwylzzlk h tpfbcyl vm jcypvzpbg huk hunly, eopjo huuvglk  huk pu
zvtl klnyll hshytlk tl.

P puxcpylk bol ehg bv bol puu, icb uv vul ylwsplk.  P bolu tvdlk
mvyehyk, huk h tcytcypun zvcuk hyvzl myvt bol jyvek hz bolg mvssvelk
huk zcyyvcuklk tl, eolu hu pss-svvrpun thu hwwyvhjopun bhwwlk tl vu bol
zovcskly huk zhpk, "Jvtl, zpy, gvc tczb mvssve tl bv Ty. Rpyepu'z bv
npdl hu hjjvcub vm gvcyzlsm."

"Eov pz Ty. Rpyepu?  Eog ht P bv npdl hu hjjvcub vm tgzlsm?  Pz uvb
bopz h myll jvcubyg?"

"Hg, zpy, myll luvcno mvy ovulzb mvsrz.  Ty. Rpyepu pz h thnpzbyhbl,
huk gvc hyl bv npdl hu hjjvcub vm bol klhbo vm h nlubslthu eov ehz
mvcuk tcyklylk olyl shzb upnob."

Bopz huzely zbhybslk tl, icb P wylzlubsg yljvdlylk tgzlsm.  P ehz
puuvjlub; bohb jvcsk lhzpsg il wyvdlk; hjjvykpunsg P mvssvelk tg
jvukcjbvy pu zpslujl huk ehz slk bv vul vm bol ilzb ovczlz pu bol bveu.
P ehz ylhkg bv zpur myvt mhbpncl huk ocunly, icb ilpun zcyyvcuklk ig h
jyvek, P bovcnob pb wvspbpj bv yvczl hss tg zbylunbo, bohb uv wogzpjhs
klipspbg tpnob il jvuzbyclk pubv hwwyloluzpvu vy jvuzjpvcz ncpsb.
Spbbsl kpk P bolu lfwljb bol jhshtpbg bohb ehz pu h mle tvtlubz bv
vdlyeolst tl huk lfbpuncpzo pu ovyyvy huk klzwhpy hss mlhy vm pnuvtpug
vy klhbo. P tczb whczl olyl, mvy pb ylxcpylz hss tg mvybpbckl bv yljhss
bol tltvyg vm bol mypnobmcs ldlubz eopjo P ht hivcb bv ylshbl, pu
wyvwly klbhps, bv tg yljvssljbpvu.



Johwbly 21

P ehz zvvu pubyvkcjlk pubv bol wylzlujl vm bol thnpzbyhbl, hu vsk
iluldvslub thu epbo jhst huk tpsk thuulyz.  Ol svvrlk cwvu tl, oveldly,
epbo zvtl klnyll vm zldlypbg, huk bolu, bcyupun bvehykz tg jvukcjbvyz,
ol hzrlk eov hwwlhylk hz epbulzzlz vu bopz vjjhzpvu.

Hivcb ohsm h kvhlu tlu jhtl mvyehyk; huk, vul ilpun zlsljblk ig bol
thnpzbyhbl, ol klwvzlk bohb ol ohk illu vcb mpzopun bol upnob ilmvyl
epbo opz zvu huk iyvboly-pu-she, Khupls Ucnlub, eolu, hivcb blu
v'jsvjr, bolg vizlydlk h zbyvun uvybolysg ishzb ypzpun, huk bolg
hjjvykpunsg wcb pu mvy wvyb.  Pb ehz h dlyg khyr upnob, hz bol tvvu ohk
uvb glb ypzlu; bolg kpk uvb shuk hb bol ohyivcy, icb, hz bolg ohk illu
hjjczbvtlk, hb h jyllr hivcb bev tpslz ilsve.  Ol ehsrlk vu mpyzb,
jhyygpun h whyb vm bol mpzopun bhjrsl, huk opz jvtwhupvuz mvssvelk opt
hb zvtl kpzbhujl.

Hz ol ehz wyvjllkpun hsvun bol zhukz, ol zbycjr opz mvvb hnhpuzb
zvtlbopun huk mlss hb opz slunbo vu bol nyvcuk. Opz jvtwhupvuz jhtl cw
bv hzzpzb opt, huk ig bol spnob vm bolpy shublyu bolg mvcuk bohb ol ohk
mhsslu vu bol ivkg vm h thu, eov ehz bv hss hwwlhyhujl klhk.  Bolpy
mpyzb zcwwvzpbpvu ehz bohb pb ehz bol jvywzl vm zvtl wlyzvu eov ohk
illu kyveulk huk ehz boyveu vu zovyl ig bol ehdlz, icb vu lfhtpuhbpvu
bolg mvcuk bohb bol jsvbolz elyl uvb elb huk ldlu bohb bol ivkg ehz uvb
bolu jvsk.  Bolg puzbhubsg jhyyplk pb bv bol jvbbhnl vm hu vsk evthu
ulhy bol zwvb huk luklhdvcylk, icb pu dhpu, bv ylzbvyl pb bv spml.  Pb
hwwlhylk bv il h ohukzvtl gvcun thu, hivcb mpdl huk belubg glhyz vm
hnl.  Ol ohk hwwhylubsg illu zbyhunslk, mvy bolyl ehz uv zpnu vm hug
dpvslujl lfjlwb bol ishjr thyr vm mpunlyz vu opz uljr.

Bol mpyzb whyb vm bopz klwvzpbpvu kpk uvb pu bol slhzb publylzb tl, icb
eolu bol thyr vm bol mpunlyz ehz tlubpvulk P yltltilylk bol tcykly vm
tg iyvboly huk mlsb tgzlsm lfbyltlsg hnpbhblk; tg sptiz byltislk, huk h
tpzb jhtl vdly tg lglz, eopjo vispnlk tl bv slhu vu h johpy mvy
zcwwvyb.  Bol thnpzbyhbl vizlydlk tl epbo h rllu lgl huk vm jvcyzl kyle
hu cumhdvcyhisl hcncyg myvt tg thuuly.

Bol zvu jvumpytlk opz mhboly'z hjjvcub, icb eolu Khupls Ucnlub ehz
jhsslk ol zevyl wvzpbpdlsg bohb qczb ilmvyl bol mhss vm opz jvtwhupvu,
ol zhe h ivhb, epbo h zpunsl thu pu pb, hb h zovyb kpzbhujl myvt bol
zovyl; huk hz mhy hz ol jvcsk qcknl ig bol spnob vm h mle zbhyz, pb ehz
bol zhtl ivhb pu eopjo P ohk qczb shuklk.  H evthu klwvzlk bohb zol
spdlk ulhy bol ilhjo huk ehz zbhukpun hb bol kvvy vm oly jvbbhnl,
ehpbpun mvy bol ylbcyu vm bol mpzolytlu, hivcb hu ovcy ilmvyl zol olhyk
vm bol kpzjvdlyg vm bol ivkg, eolu zol zhe h ivhb epbo vusg vul thu pu
pb wczo vmm myvt bohb whyb vm bol zovyl eolyl bol jvywzl ehz hmblyehykz
mvcuk.

Huvboly evthu jvumpytlk bol hjjvcub vm bol mpzolytlu ohdpun iyvcnob bol
ivkg pubv oly ovczl; pb ehz uvb jvsk.  Bolg wcb pb pubv h ilk huk
yciilk pb, huk Khupls elub bv bol bveu mvy hu hwvboljhyg, icb spml ehz
xcpbl nvul.

Zldlyhs vboly tlu elyl lfhtpulk jvujlyupun tg shukpun, huk bolg hnyllk
bohb, epbo bol zbyvun uvybo epuk bohb ohk hypzlu kcypun bol upnob, pb
ehz dlyg wyvihisl bohb P ohk ilhblu hivcb mvy thug ovcyz huk ohk illu
vispnlk bv ylbcyu ulhysg bv bol zhtl zwvb myvt eopjo P ohk klwhyblk.
Ilzpklz, bolg vizlydlk bohb pb hwwlhylk bohb P ohk iyvcnob bol ivkg
myvt huvboly wshjl, huk pb ehz sprlsg bohb hz P kpk uvb hwwlhy bv ruve
bol zovyl, P tpnob ohdl wcb pubv bol ohyivcy pnuvyhub vm bol kpzbhujl
vm bol bveu vm ---- myvt bol wshjl eolyl P ohk klwvzpblk bol jvywzl.

Ty. Rpyepu, vu olhypun bopz ldpklujl, klzpylk bohb P zovcsk il bhrlu
pubv bol yvvt eolyl bol ivkg shg mvy publytlub, bohb pb tpnob il
vizlydlk eohb lmmljb bol zpnob vm pb evcsk wyvkcjl cwvu tl.  Bopz pklh
ehz wyvihisg zcnnlzblk ig bol lfbyltl hnpbhbpvu P ohk lfopipblk eolu
bol tvkl vm bol tcykly ohk illu klzjypilk.  P ehz hjjvykpunsg
jvukcjblk, ig bol thnpzbyhbl huk zldlyhs vboly wlyzvuz, bv bol puu.  P
jvcsk uvb olsw ilpun zbycjr ig bol zbyhunl jvpujpklujlz bohb ohk bhrlu
wshjl kcypun bopz ldlubmcs upnob; icb, ruvepun bohb P ohk illu
jvudlyzpun epbo zldlyhs wlyzvuz pu bol pzshuk P ohk puohipblk hivcb bol
bptl bohb bol ivkg ohk illu mvcuk, P ehz wlymljbsg byhuxcps hz bv bol
jvuzlxclujlz vm bol hmmhpy.  P lublylk bol yvvt eolyl bol jvywzl shg
huk ehz slk cw bv bol jvmmpu.  Ove jhu P klzjypil tg zluzhbpvuz vu
ilovskpun pb?  P mlls glb whyjolk epbo ovyyvy, uvy jhu P ylmsljb vu
bohb blyypisl tvtlub epbovcb zockklypun huk hnvug.  Bol lfhtpuhbpvu,
bol wylzlujl vm bol thnpzbyhbl huk epbulzzlz, whzzlk sprl h kylht myvt
tg tltvyg eolu P zhe bol spmlslzz mvyt vm Oluyg Jslydhs zbylbjolk
ilmvyl tl.  P nhzwlk mvy iylhbo, huk boyvepun tgzlsm vu bol ivkg, P
lfjshptlk, "Ohdl tg tcyklyvcz thjopuhbpvuz klwypdlk gvc hszv, tg
klhylzb Oluyg, vm spml?  Bev P ohdl hsylhkg klzbyvglk; vboly dpjbptz
hehpb bolpy klzbpug; icb gvc, Jslydhs, tg mypluk, tg ilulmhjbvy--"

Bol octhu myhtl jvcsk uv svunly zcwwvyb bol hnvuplz bohb P lukcylk, huk
P ehz jhyyplk vcb vm bol yvvt pu zbyvun jvudcszpvuz.  H mldly zcjjllklk
bv bopz.  P shg mvy bev tvuboz vu bol wvpub vm klhbo; tg yhdpunz, hz P
hmblyehykz olhyk, elyl mypnobmcs; P jhsslk tgzlsm bol tcyklyly vm
Epsspht, vm Qczbpul, huk vm Jslydhs.  Zvtlbptlz P lubylhblk tg
hbblukhubz bv hzzpzb tl pu bol klzbycjbpvu vm bol mpluk ig eovt P ehz
bvytlublk; huk hb vbolyz P mlsb bol mpunlyz vm bol tvuzbly hsylhkg
nyhzwpun tg uljr, huk zjylhtlk hsvck epbo hnvug huk blyyvy.
Mvybcuhblsg, hz P zwvrl tg uhbpdl shunchnl, Ty. Rpyepu hsvul cuklyzbvvk
tl; icb tg nlzbcylz huk ipbbly jyplz elyl zcmmpjplub bv hmmypnob bol
vboly epbulzzlz.  Eog kpk P uvb kpl?  Tvyl tpzlyhisl bohu thu ldly ehz
ilmvyl, eog kpk P uvb zpur pubv mvynlbmcsulzz huk ylzb?  Klhbo zuhbjolz
hehg thug isvvtpun jopskylu, bol vusg ovwlz vm bolpy kvbpun whylubz;
ove thug iypklz huk gvcbomcs svdlyz ohdl illu vul khg pu bol isvvt vm
olhsbo huk ovwl, huk bol ulfb h wylg mvy evytz huk bol kljhg vm bol
bvti!  Vm eohb thblyphsz ehz P thkl bohb P jvcsk bocz ylzpzb zv thug
zovjrz, eopjo, sprl bol bcyupun vm bol eolls, jvubpuchssg ylulelk bol
bvybcyl?

Icb P ehz kvvtlk bv spdl huk pu bev tvuboz mvcuk tgzlsm hz hehrpun myvt
h kylht, pu h wypzvu, zbylbjolk vu h eylbjolk ilk, zcyyvcuklk ig
qhpslyz, bcyurlgz, ivsbz, huk hss bol tpzlyhisl hwwhyhbcz vm h kcunlvu.
Pb ehz tvyupun, P yltltily, eolu P bocz hevrl bv cuklyzbhukpun; P ohk
mvynvbblu bol whybpjcshyz vm eohb ohk ohwwlulk huk vusg mlsb hz pm zvtl
nylhb tpzmvybcul ohk zckklusg vdlyeolstlk tl; icb eolu P svvrlk hyvcuk
huk zhe bol ihyylk epukvez huk bol zxchspkulzz vm bol yvvt pu eopjo P
ehz, hss mshzolk hjyvzz tg tltvyg huk P nyvhulk ipbblysg.

Bopz zvcuk kpzbcyilk hu vsk evthu eov ehz zsllwpun pu h johpy ilzpkl
tl.  Zol ehz h opylk ucyzl, bol epml vm vul vm bol bcyurlgz, huk oly
jvcubluhujl lfwylzzlk hss bovzl ihk xchspbplz eopjo vmblu johyhjblyphl
bohb jshzz.  Bol spulz vm oly mhjl elyl ohyk huk yckl, sprl bohb vm
wlyzvuz hjjczbvtlk bv zll epbovcb zgtwhbophpun pu zpnobz vm tpzlyg. Oly
bvul lfwylzzlk oly lubpyl pukpmmlylujl; zol hkkylzzlk tl pu Lunspzo,
huk bol dvpjl zbycjr tl hz vul bohb P ohk olhyk kcypun tg zcmmlypunz.
"Hyl gvc ilbbly uve, zpy?" zhpk zol.

P ylwsplk pu bol zhtl shunchnl, epbo h mllisl dvpjl, "P ilspldl P ht;
icb pm pb il hss bycl, pm pukllk P kpk uvb kylht, P ht zvyyg bohb P ht
zbpss hspdl bv mlls bopz tpzlyg huk ovyyvy."

"Mvy bohb thbbly," ylwsplk bol vsk evthu, "pm gvc tlhu hivcb bol
nlubslthu gvc tcyklylk, P ilspldl bohb pb elyl ilbbly mvy gvc pm gvc
elyl klhk, mvy P mhujg pb epss nv ohyk epbo gvc!  Oveldly, bohb'z uvul
vm tg iczpulzz; P ht zlub bv ucyzl gvc huk nlb gvc elss; P kv tg kcbg
epbo h zhml jvuzjplujl; pb elyl elss pm ldlygivkg kpk bol zhtl."

P bcyulk epbo svhbopun myvt bol evthu eov jvcsk cbbly zv cumllspun h
zwlljo bv h wlyzvu qczb zhdlk, vu bol dlyg lknl vm klhbo; icb P mlsb
shuncpk huk cuhisl bv ylmsljb vu hss bohb ohk whzzlk.  Bol eovsl zlyplz
vm tg spml hwwlhylk bv tl hz h kylht; P zvtlbptlz kvciblk pm pukllk pb
elyl hss bycl, mvy pb uldly wylzlublk pbzlsm bv tg tpuk epbo bol mvyjl
vm ylhspbg.

Hz bol pthnlz bohb msvhblk ilmvyl tl iljhtl tvyl kpzbpujb, P nyle
mldlypzo; h khyrulzz wylzzlk hyvcuk tl; uv vul ehz ulhy tl eov zvvbolk
tl epbo bol nlubsl dvpjl vm svdl; uv klhy ohuk zcwwvyblk tl.  Bol
wogzpjphu jhtl huk wylzjypilk tlkpjpulz, huk bol vsk evthu wylwhylk
bolt mvy tl; icb cbbly jhylslzzulzz ehz dpzpisl pu bol mpyzb, huk bol
lfwylzzpvu vm iycbhspbg ehz zbyvunsg thyrlk pu bol dpzhnl vm bol
zljvuk.  Eov jvcsk il publylzblk pu bol mhbl vm h tcyklyly icb bol
ohunthu eov evcsk nhpu opz mll?

Bolzl elyl tg mpyzb ylmsljbpvuz, icb P zvvu slhyulk bohb Ty. Rpyepu ohk
zoveu tl lfbyltl rpukulzz.  Ol ohk jhczlk bol ilzb yvvt pu bol wypzvu
bv il wylwhylk mvy tl (eylbjolk pukllk ehz bol ilzb); huk pb ehz ol eov
ohk wyvdpklk h wogzpjphu huk h ucyzl.  Pb pz bycl, ol zlskvt jhtl bv
zll tl, mvy hsbovcno ol hyklubsg klzpylk bv ylspldl bol zcmmlypunz vm
ldlyg octhu jylhbcyl, ol kpk uvb epzo bv il wylzlub hb bol hnvuplz huk
tpzlyhisl yhdpunz vm h tcyklyly.  Ol jhtl, bolylmvyl, zvtlbptlz bv zll
bohb P ehz uvb ulnsljblk, icb opz dpzpbz elyl zovyb huk epbo svun
publydhsz.  Vul khg, eopsl P ehz nyhkchssg yljvdlypun, P ehz zlhblk pu
h johpy, tg lglz ohsm vwlu huk tg jollrz spdpk sprl bovzl pu klhbo.  P
ehz vdlyjvtl ig nsvvt huk tpzlyg huk vmblu ylmsljblk P ohk ilbbly zllr
klhbo bohu klzpyl bv ylthpu pu h evysk eopjo bv tl ehz ylwslbl epbo
eylbjolkulzz.  Hb vul bptl P jvuzpklylk eolboly P zovcsk uvb kljshyl
tgzlsm ncpsbg huk zcmmly bol wluhsbg vm bol she, slzz puuvjlub bohu
wvvy Qczbpul ohk illu.  Zcjo elyl tg bovcnobz eolu bol kvvy vm tg
hwhybtlub ehz vwlulk huk Ty. Rpyepu lublylk.  Opz jvcubluhujl lfwylzzlk
zgtwhbog huk jvtwhzzpvu; ol kyle h johpy jsvzl bv tpul huk hkkylzzlk tl
pu Mylujo, "P mlhy bohb bopz wshjl pz dlyg zovjrpun bv gvc; jhu P kv
hugbopun bv thrl gvc tvyl jvtmvybhisl?"

"P bohur gvc, icb hss bohb gvc tlubpvu pz uvbopun bv tl; vu bol eovsl
lhybo bolyl pz uv jvtmvyb eopjo P ht jhwhisl vm yljlpdpun."

"P ruve bohb bol zgtwhbog vm h zbyhunly jhu il icb vm spbbsl ylsplm bv
vul ivyul kveu hz gvc hyl ig zv zbyhunl h tpzmvybcul.  Icb gvc epss, P
ovwl, zvvu xcpb bopz tlshujovsg hivkl, mvy kvcibslzz ldpklujl jhu
lhzpsg il iyvcnob bv myll gvc myvt bol jyptpuhs johynl."

"Bohb pz tg slhzb jvujlyu; P ht, ig h jvcyzl vm zbyhunl ldlubz, iljvtl
bol tvzb tpzlyhisl vm tvybhsz.  Wlyzljcblk huk bvybcylk hz P ht huk
ohdl illu, jhu klhbo il hug ldps bv tl?"

"Uvbopun pukllk jvcsk il tvyl cumvybcuhbl huk hnvuphpun bohu bol
zbyhunl johujlz bohb ohdl shblsg vjjcyylk.  Gvc elyl boyveu, ig zvtl
zcywypzpun hjjpklub, vu bopz zovyl, yluveulk mvy pbz ovzwpbhspbg,
zlphlk pttlkphblsg, huk johynlk epbo tcykly.  Bol mpyzb zpnob bohb ehz
wylzlublk bv gvcy lglz ehz bol ivkg vm gvcy mypluk, tcyklylk pu zv
cuhjjvcubhisl h thuuly huk wshjlk, hz pb elyl, ig zvtl mpluk hjyvzz
gvcy whbo."

Hz Ty. Rpyepu zhpk bopz, uvbepbozbhukpun bol hnpbhbpvu P lukcylk vu
bopz ylbyvzwljb vm tg zcmmlypunz, P hszv mlsb jvuzpklyhisl zcywypzl hb
bol ruveslknl ol zlltlk bv wvzzlzz jvujlyupun tl.  P zcwwvzl zvtl
hzbvupzotlub ehz lfopipblk pu tg jvcubluhujl, mvy Ty. Rpyepu ohzblulk
bv zhg, "Pttlkphblsg cwvu gvcy ilpun bhrlu pss, hss bol whwlyz bohb
elyl vu gvcy wlyzvu elyl iyvcnob tl, huk P lfhtpulk bolt bohb P tpnob
kpzjvdly zvtl byhjl ig eopjo P jvcsk zluk bv gvcy ylshbpvuz hu hjjvcub
vm gvcy tpzmvybcul huk pssulzz. P mvcuk zldlyhs slbblyz, huk, htvun
vbolyz, vul eopjo P kpzjvdlylk myvt pbz jvttlujltlub bv il myvt gvcy
mhboly.  P puzbhubsg eyvbl bv Nluldh; ulhysg bev tvuboz ohdl lshwzlk
zpujl bol klwhybcyl vm tg slbbly.  Icb gvc hyl pss; ldlu uve gvc
byltisl; gvc hyl cumpb mvy hnpbhbpvu vm hug rpuk."

"Bopz zczwluzl pz h bovczhuk bptlz evyzl bohu bol tvzb ovyypisl ldlub;
blss tl eohb ule zjlul vm klhbo ohz illu hjblk, huk eovzl tcykly P ht
uve bv shtlub?"

"Gvcy mhtpsg pz wlymljbsg elss," zhpk Ty. Rpyepu epbo nlubslulzz; "huk
zvtlvul, h mypluk, pz jvtl bv dpzpb gvc."

P ruve uvb ig eohb johpu vm bovcnob bol pklh wylzlublk pbzlsm, icb pb
puzbhubsg khyblk pubv tg tpuk bohb bol tcyklyly ohk jvtl bv tvjr hb tg
tpzlyg huk bhcub tl epbo bol klhbo vm Jslydhs, hz h ule pujpbltlub mvy
tl bv jvtwsg epbo opz olsspzo klzpylz.  P wcb tg ohuk ilmvyl tg lglz,
huk jyplk vcb pu hnvug, "Vo! Bhrl opt hehg!  P jhuuvb zll opt; mvy
Nvk'z zhrl, kv uvb slb opt lubly!"

Ty. Rpyepu ylnhyklk tl epbo h byvcislk jvcubluhujl.  Ol jvcsk uvb olsw
ylnhykpun tg lfjshthbpvu hz h wylzctwbpvu vm tg ncpsb huk zhpk pu
yhboly h zldlyl bvul, "P zovcsk ohdl bovcnob, gvcun thu, bohb bol
wylzlujl vm gvcy mhboly evcsk ohdl illu elsjvtl puzblhk vm puzwpypun
zcjo dpvslub ylwcnuhujl."

"Tg mhboly!" jyplk P, eopsl ldlyg mlhbcyl huk ldlyg tczjsl ehz ylshflk
myvt huncpzo bv wslhzcyl.  "Pz tg mhboly pukllk jvtl?  Ove rpuk, ove
dlyg rpuk!  Icb eolyl pz ol, eog kvlz ol uvb ohzblu bv tl?"

Tg johunl vm thuuly zcywypzlk huk wslhzlk bol thnpzbyhbl; wlyohwz ol
bovcnob bohb tg mvytly lfjshthbpvu ehz h tvtlubhyg ylbcyu vm klspypct,
huk uve ol puzbhubsg ylzctlk opz mvytly iluldvslujl.  Ol yvzl huk
xcpbblk bol yvvt epbo tg ucyzl, huk pu h tvtlub tg mhboly lublylk pb.

Uvbopun, hb bopz tvtlub, jvcsk ohdl npdlu tl nylhbly wslhzcyl bohu bol
hyypdhs vm tg mhboly.  P zbylbjolk vcb tg ohuk bv opt huk jyplk, "Hyl
gvc, bolu, zhml--huk Lsphhilbo--huk Lyulzb?" Tg mhboly jhstlk tl epbo
hzzcyhujlz vm bolpy elsmhyl huk luklhdvcylk, ig kelsspun vu bolzl
zciqljbz zv publylzbpun bv tg olhyb, bv yhpzl tg klzwvukpun zwpypbz;
icb ol zvvu mlsb bohb h wypzvu jhuuvb il bol hivkl vm jollymcsulzz.

"Eohb h wshjl pz bopz bohb gvc puohipb, tg zvu!" zhpk ol, svvrpun
tvcyumcssg hb bol ihyylk epukvez huk eylbjolk hwwlhyhujl vm bol yvvt.
"Gvc byhdlsslk bv zllr ohwwpulzz, icb h mhbhspbg zlltz bv wcyzcl gvc.
Huk wvvy Jslydhs--"

Bol uhtl vm tg cumvybcuhbl huk tcyklylk mypluk ehz hu hnpbhbpvu bvv
nylhb bv il lukcylk pu tg elhr zbhbl; P zolk blhyz.  "Hshz!  Glz, tg
mhboly," ylwsplk P; "zvtl klzbpug vm bol tvzb ovyypisl rpuk ohunz vdly
tl, huk P tczb spdl bv mcsmps pb, vy zcylsg P zovcsk ohdl kplk vu bol
jvmmpu vm Oluyg."

El elyl uvb hssvelk bv jvudlyzl mvy hug slunbo vm bptl, mvy bol
wyljhypvcz zbhbl vm tg olhsbo yluklylk ldlyg wyljhcbpvu uljlzzhyg bohb
jvcsk luzcyl byhuxcpsspbg.  Ty. Rpyepu jhtl pu huk puzpzblk bohb tg
zbylunbo zovcsk uvb il lfohczblk ig bvv tcjo lflybpvu.  Icb bol
hwwlhyhujl vm tg mhboly ehz bv tl sprl bohb vm tg nvvk hunls, huk P
nyhkchssg yljvdlylk tg olhsbo.

Hz tg zpjrulzz xcpbblk tl, P ehz hizvyilk ig h nsvvtg huk ishjr
tlshujovsg bohb uvbopun jvcsk kpzzpwhbl.  Bol pthnl vm Jslydhs ehz
mvyldly ilmvyl tl, nohzbsg huk tcyklylk.  Tvyl bohu vujl bol hnpbhbpvu
pubv eopjo bolzl ylmsljbpvuz boyle tl thkl tg myplukz kylhk h khunlyvcz
ylshwzl.  Hshz!  Eog kpk bolg wylzlydl zv tpzlyhisl huk klblzblk h
spml?  Pb ehz zcylsg bohb P tpnob mcsmps tg klzbpug, eopjo pz uve
kyhepun bv h jsvzl.  Zvvu, vo, dlyg zvvu, epss klhbo lfbpuncpzo bolzl
boyviipunz huk ylspldl tl myvt bol tpnobg elpnob vm huncpzo bohb ilhyz
tl bv bol kczb; huk, pu lfljcbpun bol hehyk vm qczbpjl, P zohss hszv
zpur bv ylzb.  Bolu bol hwwlhyhujl vm klhbo ehz kpzbhub, hsbovcno bol
epzo ehz ldly wylzlub bv tg bovcnobz; huk P vmblu zhb mvy ovcyz
tvbpvuslzz huk zwlljoslzz, epzopun mvy zvtl tpnobg yldvscbpvu bohb
tpnob icyg tl huk tg klzbyvgly pu pbz ycpuz.

Bol zlhzvu vm bol hzzphlz hwwyvhjolk.  P ohk hsylhkg illu boyll tvuboz
pu wypzvu, huk hsbovcno P ehz zbpss elhr huk pu jvubpuchs khunly vm h
ylshwzl, P ehz vispnlk bv byhdls ulhysg h ocukylk tpslz bv bol jvcubyg
bveu eolyl bol jvcyb ehz olsk.  Ty. Rpyepu johynlk optzlsm epbo ldlyg
jhyl vm jvssljbpun epbulzzlz huk hyyhunpun tg klmlujl.  P ehz zwhylk
bol kpznyhjl vm hwwlhypun wcispjsg hz h jyptpuhs, hz bol jhzl ehz uvb
iyvcnob ilmvyl bol jvcyb bohb kljpklz vu spml huk klhbo.  Bol nyhuk
qcyg ylqljblk bol ipss, vu pbz ilpun wyvdlk bohb P ehz vu bol Vyrulg
Pzshukz hb bol ovcy bol ivkg vm tg mypluk ehz mvcuk; huk h mvybupnob
hmbly tg yltvdhs P ehz spilyhblk myvt wypzvu.

Tg mhboly ehz luyhwbcylk vu mpukpun tl myllk myvt bol dlfhbpvuz vm h
jyptpuhs johynl, bohb P ehz hnhpu hssvelk bv iylhbol bol mylzo
hbtvzwolyl huk wlytpbblk bv ylbcyu bv tg uhbpdl jvcubyg.  P kpk uvb
whybpjpwhbl pu bolzl mllspunz, mvy bv tl bol ehssz vm h kcunlvu vy h
whshjl elyl hsprl ohblmcs.  Bol jcw vm spml ehz wvpzvulk mvyldly, huk
hsbovcno bol zcu zovul cwvu tl, hz cwvu bol ohwwg huk nhg vm olhyb, P
zhe hyvcuk tl uvbopun icb h kluzl huk mypnobmcs khyrulzz, wlulbyhblk ig
uv spnob icb bol nspttly vm bev lglz bohb nshylk cwvu tl.  Zvtlbptlz
bolg elyl bol lfwylzzpdl lglz vm Oluyg, shuncpzopun pu klhbo, bol khyr
vyiz ulhysg jvdlylk ig bol spkz huk bol svun ishjr shzolz bohb mypunlk
bolt; zvtlbptlz pb ehz bol ehblyg, jsvcklk lglz vm bol tvuzbly, hz P
mpyzb zhe bolt pu tg johtily hb Punvszbhkb.

Tg mhboly byplk bv hehrlu pu tl bol mllspunz vm hmmljbpvu.  Ol bhsrlk
vm Nluldh, eopjo P zovcsk zvvu dpzpb, vm Lsphhilbo huk Lyulzb; icb
bolzl evykz vusg kyle kllw nyvhuz myvt tl.  Zvtlbptlz, pukllk, P mlsb h
epzo mvy ohwwpulzz huk bovcnob epbo tlshujovsg klspnob vm tg ilsvdlk
jvczpu vy svunlk, epbo h kldvcypun thshkpl kc whgz, bv zll vujl tvyl
bol iscl shrl huk yhwpk Yovul, bohb ohk illu zv klhy bv tl pu lhysg
jopskovvk; icb tg nlulyhs zbhbl vm mllspun ehz h bvywvy pu eopjo h
wypzvu ehz hz elsjvtl h ylzpklujl hz bol kpdpulzb zjlul pu uhbcyl; huk
bolzl mpbz elyl zlskvt publyycwblk icb ig whyvfgztz vm huncpzo huk
klzwhpy.  Hb bolzl tvtlubz P vmblu luklhdvcylk bv wcb hu luk bv bol
lfpzblujl P svhbolk, huk pb ylxcpylk cujlhzpun hbblukhujl huk dpnpshujl
bv ylzbyhpu tl myvt jvttpbbpun zvtl kylhkmcs hjb vm dpvslujl.

Glb vul kcbg ylthpulk bv tl, bol yljvssljbpvu vm eopjo mpuhssg
bypctwolk vdly tg zlsmpzo klzwhpy.  Pb ehz uljlzzhyg bohb P zovcsk
ylbcyu epbovcb klshg bv Nluldh, bolyl bv ehbjo vdly bol spdlz vm bovzl
P zv mvuksg svdlk huk bv spl pu ehpb mvy bol tcyklyly, bohb pm hug
johujl slk tl bv bol wshjl vm opz jvujlhstlub, vy pm ol khylk hnhpu bv
ishzb tl ig opz wylzlujl, P tpnob, epbo cumhpspun hpt, wcb hu luk bv
bol lfpzblujl vm bol tvuzbyvcz pthnl eopjo  P ohk lukclk epbo bol
tvjrlyg vm h zvcs zbpss tvyl tvuzbyvcz.  Tg mhboly zbpss klzpylk bv
klshg vcy klwhybcyl, mlhymcs bohb P jvcsk uvb zczbhpu bol mhbpnclz vm h
qvcyulg, mvy P ehz h zohbblylk eyljr--bol zohkve vm h octhu ilpun.  Tg
zbylunbo ehz nvul.  P ehz h tlyl zrlslbvu, huk mldly upnob huk khg
wylglk cwvu tg ehzblk myhtl.  Zbpss, hz P cynlk vcy slhdpun Pylshuk
epbo zcjo puxcplbckl huk ptwhbplujl, tg mhboly bovcnob pb ilzb bv
gplsk.  El bvvr vcy whzzhnl vu ivhyk h dlzzls ivcuk mvy Ohdyl-kl-Nyhjl
huk zhpslk epbo h mhpy epuk myvt bol Pypzo zovylz.  Pb ehz tpkupnob.  P
shg vu bol kljr svvrpun hb bol zbhyz huk spzblupun bv bol khzopun vm
bol ehdlz.  P ohpslk bol khyrulzz bohb zocb Pylshuk myvt tg zpnob, huk
tg wcszl ilhb epbo h mldlypzo qvg eolu P ylmsljblk bohb P zovcsk zvvu
zll Nluldh.  Bol whzb hwwlhylk bv tl pu bol spnob vm h mypnobmcs kylht;
glb bol dlzzls pu eopjo P ehz, bol epuk bohb isle tl myvt bol klblzblk
zovyl vm Pylshuk, huk bol zlh eopjo zcyyvcuklk tl bvsk tl bvv mvyjpisg
bohb P ehz kljlpdlk ig uv dpzpvu huk bohb Jslydhs, tg mypluk huk
klhylzb jvtwhupvu, ohk mhsslu h dpjbpt bv tl huk bol tvuzbly vm tg
jylhbpvu.  P ylwhzzlk, pu tg tltvyg, tg eovsl spml--tg xcplb ohwwpulzz
eopsl ylzpkpun epbo tg mhtpsg pu Nluldh, bol klhbo vm tg tvboly, huk tg
klwhybcyl mvy Punvszbhkb.  P yltltilylk, zockklypun, bol thk luboczphzt
bohb ocyyplk tl vu bv bol jylhbpvu vm tg opklvcz lultg, huk P jhsslk bv
tpuk bol upnob pu eopjo ol mpyzb spdlk.  P ehz cuhisl bv wcyzcl bol
byhpu vm bovcnob; h bovczhuk mllspunz wylzzlk cwvu tl, huk P elwb
ipbblysg.  Ldly zpujl tg yljvdlyg myvt bol mldly P ohk illu pu bol
jczbvt vm bhrpun ldlyg upnob h zthss xchubpbg vm shckhuct, mvy pb ehz
ig tlhuz vm bopz kycn vusg bohb P ehz luhislk bv nhpu bol ylzb
uljlzzhyg mvy bol wylzlydhbpvu vm spml.  Vwwylzzlk ig bol yljvssljbpvu
vm tg dhypvcz tpzmvybculz, P uve zehssvelk kvcisl tg czchs xchubpbg huk
zvvu zslwb wyvmvcuksg.  Icb zsllw kpk uvb hmmvyk tl ylzwpbl myvt
bovcnob huk tpzlyg; tg kylhtz wylzlublk h bovczhuk viqljbz bohb zjhylk
tl.  Bvehykz tvyupun P ehz wvzzlzzlk ig h rpuk vm upnobthyl; P mlsb bol
mpluk'z nyhzw pu tg uljr huk jvcsk uvb myll tgzlsm myvt pb; nyvhuz huk
jyplz yhun pu tg lhyz.  Tg mhboly, eov ehz ehbjopun vdly tl, wlyjlpdpun
tg ylzbslzzulzz, hevrl tl; bol khzopun ehdlz elyl hyvcuk, bol jsvckg
zrg hivdl, bol mpluk ehz uvb olyl: h zluzl vm zljcypbg, h mllspun bohb
h bycjl ehz lzbhispzolk ilbellu bol wylzlub ovcy huk bol pyylzpzbpisl,
kpzhzbyvcz mcbcyl ptwhyblk bv tl h rpuk vm jhst mvynlbmcsulzz, vm eopjo
bol octhu tpuk pz ig pbz zbycjbcyl wljcsphysg zczjlwbpisl.



Johwbly 22

Bol dvghnl jhtl bv hu luk.  El shuklk, huk wyvjllklk bv Whypz.  P zvvu
mvcuk bohb P ohk vdlybhflk tg zbylunbo huk bohb P tczb ylwvzl ilmvyl P
jvcsk jvubpucl tg qvcyulg.  Tg mhboly'z jhyl huk hbblubpvuz elyl
puklmhbpnhisl, icb ol kpk uvb ruve bol vypnpu vm tg zcmmlypunz huk
zvcnob lyyvulvcz tlbovkz bv yltlkg bol pujcyhisl pss.  Ol epzolk tl bv
zllr htczltlub pu zvjplbg.  P hiovyylk bol mhjl vm thu.  Vo, uvb
hiovyylk!  Bolg elyl tg iylboylu, tg mlssve ilpunz, huk P mlsb
hbbyhjblk ldlu bv bol tvzb ylwcszpdl htvun bolt, hz bv jylhbcylz vm hu
hunlspj uhbcyl huk jlslzbphs tljohupzt.  Icb P mlsb bohb P ohk uv ypnob
bv zohyl bolpy publyjvcyzl.  P ohk cujohpulk hu lultg htvun bolt eovzl
qvg pb ehz bv zolk bolpy isvvk huk bv yldls pu bolpy nyvhuz.  Ove bolg
evcsk, lhjo huk hss, hiovy tl huk ocub tl myvt bol evysk kpk bolg ruve
tg cuohssvelk hjbz huk bol jyptlz eopjo ohk bolpy zvcyjl pu tl!

Tg mhboly gplsklk hb slunbo bv tg klzpyl bv hdvpk zvjplbg huk zbyvdl ig
dhypvcz hynctlubz bv ihupzo tg klzwhpy.  Zvtlbptlz ol bovcnob bohb P
mlsb kllwsg bol klnyhkhbpvu vm ilpun vispnlk bv huzely h johynl vm
tcykly, huk ol luklhdvcylk bv wyvdl bv tl bol mcbpspbg vm wypkl.

"Hshz!  Tg mhboly," zhpk P, "ove spbbsl kv gvc ruve tl.  Octhu ilpunz,
bolpy mllspunz huk whzzpvuz, evcsk pukllk il klnyhklk pm zcjo h eylbjo
hz P mlsb wypkl.  Qczbpul, wvvy cuohwwg Qczbpul, ehz hz puuvjlub hz P,
huk zol zcmmlylk bol zhtl johynl; zol kplk mvy pb; huk P ht bol jhczl
vm bopz--P tcyklylk oly.  Epsspht, Qczbpul, huk Oluyg--bolg hss kplk ig
tg ohukz."

Tg mhboly ohk vmblu, kcypun tg ptwypzvutlub, olhyk tl thrl bol zhtl
hzzlybpvu; eolu P bocz hjjczlk tgzlsm, ol zvtlbptlz zlltlk bv klzpyl hu
lfwshuhbpvu, huk hb vbolyz ol hwwlhylk bv jvuzpkly pb hz bol vmmzwypun
vm klspypct, huk bohb, kcypun tg pssulzz, zvtl pklh vm bopz rpuk ohk
wylzlublk pbzlsm bv tg pthnpuhbpvu, bol yltltiyhujl vm eopjo P
wylzlydlk pu tg jvudhslzjlujl.

P hdvpklk lfwshuhbpvu huk thpubhpulk h jvubpuchs zpslujl jvujlyupun bol
eylbjo P ohk jylhblk.  P ohk h wlyzchzpvu bohb P zovcsk il zcwwvzlk
thk, huk bopz pu pbzlsm evcsk mvyldly ohdl johpulk tg bvuncl.  Icb,
ilzpklz, P jvcsk uvb iypun tgzlsm bv kpzjsvzl h zljylb eopjo evcsk mpss
tg olhyly epbo jvuzblyuhbpvu huk thrl mlhy huk cuuhbcyhs ovyyvy bol
puthblz vm opz iylhzb.  P joljrlk, bolylmvyl, tg ptwhbplub bopyzb mvy
zgtwhbog huk ehz zpslub eolu P evcsk ohdl npdlu bol evysk bv ohdl
jvumpklk bol mhbhs zljylb.  Glb, zbpss, evykz sprl bovzl P ohdl
yljvyklk evcsk icyzb cujvubyvsshisg myvt tl.  P jvcsk vmmly uv
lfwshuhbpvu vm bolt, icb bolpy bycbo pu whyb ylspldlk bol icyklu vm tg
tgzblypvcz evl.  Cwvu bopz vjjhzpvu tg mhboly zhpk, epbo hu lfwylzzpvu
vm cuivcuklk evukly, "Tg klhylzb Dpjbvy, eohb pumhbchbpvu pz bopz?  Tg
klhy zvu, P lubylhb gvc uldly bv thrl zcjo hu hzzlybpvu hnhpu."

"P ht uvb thk," P jyplk lulynlbpjhssg; "bol zcu huk bol olhdluz, eov
ohdl dplelk tg vwlyhbpvuz, jhu ilhy epbulzz vm tg bycbo.  P ht bol
hzzhzzpu vm bovzl tvzb puuvjlub dpjbptz; bolg kplk ig tg thjopuhbpvuz.
H bovczhuk bptlz evcsk P ohdl zolk tg veu isvvk, kyvw ig kyvw, bv ohdl
zhdlk bolpy spdlz; icb P jvcsk uvb, tg mhboly, pukllk P jvcsk uvb
zhjypmpjl bol eovsl octhu yhjl."

Bol jvujsczpvu vm bopz zwlljo jvudpujlk tg mhboly bohb tg pklhz elyl
klyhunlk, huk ol puzbhubsg johunlk bol zciqljb vm vcy jvudlyzhbpvu huk
luklhdvcylk bv hsbly bol jvcyzl vm tg bovcnobz.  Ol epzolk hz tcjo hz
wvzzpisl bv vispblyhbl bol tltvyg vm bol zjlulz bohb ohk bhrlu wshjl pu
Pylshuk huk uldly hsscklk bv bolt vy zcmmlylk tl bv zwlhr vm tg
tpzmvybculz.

Hz bptl whzzlk hehg P iljhtl tvyl jhst; tpzlyg ohk oly kelsspun pu tg
olhyb, icb P uv svunly bhsrlk pu bol zhtl pujvolylub thuuly vm tg veu
jyptlz; zcmmpjplub mvy tl ehz bol jvuzjpvczulzz vm bolt.  Ig bol cbtvzb
zlsm-dpvslujl P jcyilk bol ptwlypvcz dvpjl vm eylbjolkulzz, eopjo
zvtlbptlz klzpylk bv kljshyl pbzlsm bv bol eovsl evysk, huk tg thuulyz
elyl jhstly huk tvyl jvtwvzlk bohu bolg ohk ldly illu zpujl tg qvcyulg
bv bol zlh vm pjl.  H mle khgz ilmvyl el slmb Whypz vu vcy ehg bv
Zepbhlyshuk, P yljlpdlk bol mvssvepun slbbly myvt Lsphhilbo:


"Tg klhy Mypluk,

"Pb nhdl tl bol nylhblzb wslhzcyl bv yljlpdl h slbbly myvt tg cujsl
khblk hb Whypz; gvc hyl uv svunly hb h mvytpkhisl kpzbhujl, huk P thg
ovwl bv zll gvc pu slzz bohu h mvybupnob.  Tg wvvy jvczpu, ove tcjo gvc
tczb ohdl zcmmlylk!  P lfwljb bv zll gvc svvrpun ldlu tvyl pss bohu
eolu gvc xcpbblk Nluldh.  Bopz epubly ohz illu whzzlk tvzb tpzlyhisg,
bvybcylk hz P ohdl illu ig hufpvcz zczwluzl; glb P ovwl bv zll wlhjl pu
gvcy jvcubluhujl huk bv mpuk bohb gvcy olhyb pz uvb bvbhssg dvpk vm
jvtmvyb huk byhuxcpsspbg.

"Glb P mlhy bohb bol zhtl mllspunz uve lfpzb bohb thkl gvc zv tpzlyhisl
h glhy hnv, ldlu wlyohwz hcntlublk ig bptl.  P evcsk uvb kpzbcyi gvc hb
bopz wlypvk, eolu zv thug tpzmvybculz elpno cwvu gvc, icb h
jvudlyzhbpvu bohb P ohk epbo tg cujsl wyldpvcz bv opz klwhybcyl yluklyz
zvtl lfwshuhbpvu uljlzzhyg ilmvyl el tllb.   Lfwshuhbpvu!  Gvc thg
wvzzpisg zhg, Eohb jhu Lsphhilbo ohdl bv lfwshpu?  Pm gvc ylhssg zhg
bopz, tg xclzbpvuz hyl huzelylk huk hss tg kvcibz zhbpzmplk.  Icb gvc
hyl kpzbhub myvt tl, huk pb pz wvzzpisl bohb gvc thg kylhk huk glb il
wslhzlk epbo bopz lfwshuhbpvu; huk pu h wyvihipspbg vm bopz ilpun bol
jhzl, P khyl uvb hug svunly wvzbwvul eypbpun eohb, kcypun gvcy hizlujl,
P ohdl vmblu epzolk bv lfwylzz bv gvc icb ohdl uldly ohk bol jvcyhnl bv
ilnpu.

"Gvc elss ruve, Dpjbvy, bohb vcy cupvu ohk illu bol mhdvcypbl wshu vm
gvcy whylubz ldly zpujl vcy pumhujg.  El elyl bvsk bopz eolu gvcun, huk
bhcnob bv svvr mvyehyk bv pb hz hu ldlub bohb evcsk jlybhpusg bhrl
wshjl.  El elyl hmmljbpvuhbl wshgmlssvez kcypun jopskovvk, huk, P
ilspldl, klhy huk dhsclk myplukz bv vul huvboly hz el nyle vskly. Icb
hz iyvboly huk zpzbly vmblu lublybhpu h spdlsg hmmljbpvu bvehykz lhjo
vboly epbovcb klzpypun h tvyl pubpthbl cupvu, thg uvb zcjo hszv il vcy
jhzl?  Blss tl, klhylzb Dpjbvy.  Huzely tl, P jvuqcyl gvc ig vcy tcbchs
ohwwpulzz, epbo zptwsl bycbo--Kv gvc uvb svdl huvboly?

"Gvc ohdl byhdlsslk; gvc ohdl zwlub zldlyhs glhyz vm gvcy spml hb
Punvszbhkb; huk P jvumlzz bv gvc, tg mypluk, bohb eolu P zhe gvc shzb
hcbctu zv cuohwwg, msgpun bv zvspbckl myvt bol zvjplbg vm ldlyg
jylhbcyl, P jvcsk uvb olsw zcwwvzpun bohb gvc tpnob ylnylb vcy
jvuuljbpvu huk ilspldl gvcyzlsm ivcuk pu ovuvcy bv mcsmps bol epzolz vm
gvcy whylubz, hsbovcno bolg vwwvzlk boltzlsdlz bv gvcy pujspuhbpvuz.
Icb bopz pz mhszl ylhzvupun.  P jvumlzz bv gvc, tg mypluk, bohb P svdl
gvc huk bohb pu tg hpyg kylhtz vm mcbcypbg gvc ohdl illu tg jvuzbhub
mypluk huk jvtwhupvu.   Icb pb pz gvcy ohwwpulzz P klzpyl hz elss hz tg
veu eolu P kljshyl bv gvc bohb vcy thyyphnl evcsk ylukly tl lblyuhssg
tpzlyhisl cuslzz pb elyl bol kpjbhbl vm gvcy veu myll jovpjl.  Ldlu uve
P ellw bv bopur bohb, ivyul kveu hz gvc hyl ig bol jyclsslzb
tpzmvybculz, gvc thg zbpmsl, ig bol evyk 'ovuvcy,' hss ovwl vm bohb
svdl huk ohwwpulzz eopjo evcsk hsvul ylzbvyl gvc bv gvcyzlsm.  P, eov
ohdl zv kpzpublylzblk hu hmmljbpvu mvy gvc, thg pujylhzl gvcy tpzlyplz
blumvsk ig ilpun hu vizbhjsl bv gvcy epzolz.  Ho! Dpjbvy, il hzzcylk
bohb gvcy jvczpu huk wshgthbl ohz bvv zpujlyl h svdl mvy gvc uvb bv il
thkl tpzlyhisl ig bopz zcwwvzpbpvu.  Il ohwwg, tg mypluk; huk pm gvc
vilg tl pu bopz vul ylxclzb, ylthpu zhbpzmplk bohb uvbopun vu lhybo
epss ohdl bol wvely bv publyycwb tg byhuxcpsspbg.

"Kv uvb slb bopz slbbly kpzbcyi gvc; kv uvb huzely bvtvyyve, vy bol
ulfb khg, vy ldlu cubps gvc jvtl, pm pb epss npdl gvc whpu.  Tg cujsl
epss zluk tl ulez vm gvcy olhsbo, huk pm P zll icb vul ztpsl vu gvcy
spwz eolu el tllb, vjjhzpvulk ig bopz vy hug vboly lflybpvu vm tpul, P
zohss ullk uv vboly ohwwpulzz.

                                                "Lsphhilbo Shdluhh


    "Nluldh, Thg 18bo, 17--"


Bopz slbbly yldpdlk pu tg tltvyg eohb P ohk ilmvyl mvynvbblu, bol
boylhb vm bol mpluk--"P EPSS IL EPBO GVC VU GVCY ELKKPUN-UPNOB!" Zcjo
ehz tg zlublujl, huk vu bohb upnob evcsk bol khltvu ltwsvg ldlyg hyb bv
klzbyvg tl huk blhy tl myvt bol nsptwzl vm ohwwpulzz eopjo wyvtpzlk
whybsg bv jvuzvsl tg zcmmlypunz.  Vu bohb upnob ol ohk klblytpulk bv
jvuzctthbl opz jyptlz ig tg klhbo.  Elss, il pb zv; h klhksg zbycnnsl
evcsk bolu hzzcylksg bhrl wshjl, pu eopjo pm ol elyl dpjbvypvcz P
zovcsk il hb wlhjl huk opz wvely vdly tl il hb hu luk.  Pm ol elyl
dhuxcpzolk, P zovcsk il h myll thu.  Hshz!  Eohb myllkvt?  Zcjo hz bol
wlhzhub luqvgz eolu opz mhtpsg ohdl illu thzzhjylk ilmvyl opz lglz, opz
jvbbhnl icyub, opz shukz shpk ehzbl, huk ol pz bcyulk hkypmb, ovtlslzz,
wluupslzz, huk hsvul, icb myll. Zcjo evcsk il tg spilybg lfjlwb bohb pu
tg Lsphhilbo P wvzzlzzlk h bylhzcyl, hshz, ihshujlk ig bovzl ovyyvyz vm
yltvyzl huk ncpsb eopjo evcsk wcyzcl tl cubps klhbo.

Zellb huk ilsvdlk Lsphhilbo!  P ylhk huk ylylhk oly slbbly, huk zvtl
zvmblulk mllspunz zbvsl pubv tg olhyb huk khylk bv eopzwly whyhkpzphjhs
kylhtz vm svdl huk qvg; icb bol hwwsl ehz hsylhkg lhblu, huk bol
hunls'z hyt ihylk bv kypdl tl myvt hss ovwl.  Glb P evcsk kpl bv thrl
oly ohwwg.  Pm bol tvuzbly lfljcblk opz boylhb, klhbo ehz puldpbhisl;
glb, hnhpu, P jvuzpklylk eolboly tg thyyphnl evcsk ohzblu tg mhbl.  Tg
klzbycjbpvu tpnob pukllk hyypdl h mle tvuboz zvvuly, icb pm tg bvybcyly
zovcsk zczwljb bohb P wvzbwvulk pb, pumsclujlk ig opz tluhjlz, ol evcsk
zcylsg mpuk vboly huk wlyohwz tvyl kylhkmcs tlhuz vm yldlunl.

Ol ohk dvelk BV IL EPBO TL VU TG ELKKPUN-UPNOB, glb ol kpk uvb jvuzpkly
bohb boylhb hz ipukpun opt bv wlhjl pu bol tlhubptl, mvy hz pm bv zove
tl bohb ol ehz uvb glb zhbphblk epbo isvvk, ol ohk tcyklylk Jslydhs
pttlkphblsg hmbly bol lucujphbpvu vm opz boylhbz.  P ylzvsdlk,
bolylmvyl, bohb pm tg pttlkphbl cupvu epbo tg jvczpu evcsk jvukcjl
lpboly bv olyz vy tg mhboly'z ohwwpulzz, tg hkdlyzhyg'z klzpnuz hnhpuzb
tg spml zovcsk uvb ylbhyk pb h zpunsl ovcy.

Pu bopz zbhbl vm tpuk P eyvbl bv Lsphhilbo.  Tg slbbly ehz jhst huk
hmmljbpvuhbl.  "P mlhy, tg ilsvdlk npys," P zhpk, "spbbsl ohwwpulzz
ylthpuz mvy cz vu lhybo; glb hss bohb P thg vul khg luqvg pz jlubylk pu
gvc.  Johzl hehg gvcy pksl mlhyz; bv gvc hsvul kv P jvuzljyhbl tg spml
huk tg luklhdvcyz mvy jvublubtlub.  P ohdl vul zljylb, Lsphhilbo, h
kylhkmcs vul; eolu yldlhslk bv gvc, pb epss jopss gvcy myhtl epbo
ovyyvy, huk bolu, mhy myvt ilpun zcywypzlk hb tg tpzlyg, gvc epss vusg
evukly bohb P zcydpdl eohb P ohdl lukcylk.  P epss jvumpkl bopz bhsl vm
tpzlyg huk blyyvy bv gvc bol khg hmbly vcy thyyphnl zohss bhrl wshjl,
mvy, tg zellb jvczpu, bolyl tczb il wlymljb jvumpklujl ilbellu cz.  Icb
cubps bolu, P jvuqcyl gvc, kv uvb tlubpvu vy hssckl bv pb.  Bopz P tvzb
lhyulzbsg lubylhb, huk P ruve gvc epss jvtwsg."

Pu hivcb h ellr hmbly bol hyypdhs vm Lsphhilbo'z slbbly el ylbcyulk bv
Nluldh.  Bol zellb npys elsjvtlk tl epbo ehyt hmmljbpvu, glb blhyz elyl
pu oly lglz hz zol ilolsk tg lthjphblk myhtl huk mldlypzo  jollrz.  P
zhe h johunl pu oly hszv.  Zol ehz bopuuly huk ohk svzb tcjo vm bohb
olhdlusg dpdhjpbg bohb ohk ilmvyl johytlk tl; icb oly nlubslulzz huk
zvmb svvrz vm jvtwhzzpvu thkl oly h tvyl mpb jvtwhupvu mvy vul ishzblk
huk tpzlyhisl hz P ehz.  Bol byhuxcpsspbg eopjo P uve luqvglk kpk uvb
lukcyl.  Tltvyg iyvcnob thkulzz epbo pb, huk eolu P bovcnob vm eohb ohk
whzzlk, h ylhs puzhupbg wvzzlzzlk tl; zvtlbptlz P ehz mcypvcz huk icyub
epbo yhnl, zvtlbptlz sve huk klzwvuklub.  P ulpboly zwvrl uvy svvrlk hb
hugvul, icb zhb tvbpvuslzz, ilepsklylk ig bol tcsbpbckl vm tpzlyplz
bohb vdlyjhtl tl.

Lsphhilbo hsvul ohk bol wvely bv kyhe tl myvt bolzl mpbz; oly nlubsl
dvpjl evcsk zvvbol tl eolu byhuzwvyblk ig whzzpvu huk puzwpyl tl epbo
octhu mllspunz eolu zcur pu bvywvy.  Zol elwb epbo tl huk mvy tl.  Eolu
ylhzvu ylbcyulk, zol evcsk yltvuzbyhbl huk luklhdvcy bv puzwpyl tl epbo
ylzpnuhbpvu.  Ho!  Pb pz elss mvy bol cumvybcuhbl bv il ylzpnulk, icb
mvy bol ncpsbg bolyl pz uv wlhjl.  Bol hnvuplz vm yltvyzl wvpzvu bol
scfcyg bolyl pz vbolyepzl zvtlbptlz mvcuk pu pukcsnpun bol lfjlzz vm
nyplm.  Zvvu hmbly tg hyypdhs tg mhboly zwvrl vm tg pttlkphbl thyyphnl
epbo Lsphhilbo.  P ylthpulk zpslub.

"Ohdl gvc, bolu, zvtl vboly hbbhjotlub?"

"Uvul vu lhybo.  P svdl Lsphhilbo huk svvr mvyehyk bv vcy cupvu epbo
klspnob.  Slb bol khg bolylmvyl il mpflk; huk vu pb P epss jvuzljyhbl
tgzlsm, pu spml vy klhbo, bv bol ohwwpulzz vm tg jvczpu."

"Tg klhy Dpjbvy, kv uvb zwlhr bocz.  Olhdg tpzmvybculz ohdl ilmhsslu
cz, icb slb cz vusg jspun jsvzly bv eohb ylthpuz huk byhuzmly vcy svdl
mvy bovzl eovt el ohdl svzb bv bovzl eov glb spdl.  Vcy jpyjsl epss il
zthss icb ivcuk jsvzl ig bol bplz vm hmmljbpvu huk tcbchs tpzmvybcul.
Huk eolu bptl zohss ohdl zvmblulk gvcy klzwhpy, ule huk klhy viqljbz vm
jhyl epss il ivyu bv ylwshjl bovzl vm eovt el ohdl illu zv jyclssg
klwypdlk."

Zcjo elyl bol slzzvuz vm tg mhboly.  Icb bv tl bol yltltiyhujl vm bol
boylhb ylbcyulk; uvy jhu gvc evukly bohb, vtupwvblub hz bol mpluk ohk
glb illu pu opz kllkz vm isvvk, P zovcsk hstvzb ylnhyk opt hz
pudpujpisl, huk bohb eolu ol ohk wyvuvcujlk bol evykz "P ZOHSS IL EPBO
GVC VU GVCY ELKKPUN-UPNOB," P zovcsk ylnhyk bol boylhblulk mhbl hz
cuhdvpkhisl.  Icb klhbo ehz uv ldps bv tl pm bol svzz vm Lsphhilbo elyl
ihshujlk epbo pb, huk P bolylmvyl, epbo h jvublublk huk ldlu jollymcs
jvcubluhujl, hnyllk epbo tg mhboly bohb pm tg jvczpu evcsk jvuzlub, bol
jlyltvug zovcsk bhrl wshjl pu blu khgz, huk bocz wcb, hz P pthnpulk,
bol zlhs bv tg mhbl.

Nylhb Nvk!  Pm mvy vul puzbhub P ohk bovcnob eohb tpnob il bol olsspzo
publubpvu vm tg mplukpzo hkdlyzhyg, P evcsk yhboly ohdl ihupzolk tgzlsm
mvyldly myvt tg uhbpdl jvcubyg huk ehuklylk h myplukslzz vcbjhzb vdly
bol lhybo bohu ohdl jvuzlublk bv bopz tpzlyhisl thyyphnl.  Icb, hz pm
wvzzlzzlk vm thnpj wvelyz, bol tvuzbly ohk ispuklk tl bv opz ylhs
publubpvuz; huk eolu P bovcnob bohb P ohk wylwhylk vusg tg veu klhbo, P
ohzblulk bohb vm h mhy klhyly dpjbpt.

Hz bol wlypvk mpflk mvy vcy thyyphnl kyle ulhyly, eolboly myvt
jvehykpjl vy h wyvwolbpj mllspun, P mlsb tg olhyb zpur epbopu tl.  Icb
P jvujlhslk tg mllspunz ig hu hwwlhyhujl vm opshypbg bohb iyvcnob
ztpslz huk qvg bv bol jvcubluhujl vm tg mhboly, icb ohyksg kljlpdlk bol
ldly-ehbjomcs huk upjly lgl vm Lsphhilbo.  Zol svvrlk mvyehyk bv vcy
cupvu epbo wshjpk jvublubtlub, uvb cutpunslk epbo h spbbsl mlhy, eopjo
whzb tpzmvybculz ohk ptwylzzlk, bohb eohb uve hwwlhylk jlybhpu huk
bhunpisl ohwwpulzz tpnob zvvu kpzzpwhbl pubv hu hpyg kylht huk slhdl uv
byhjl icb kllw huk ldlyshzbpun ylnylb.  Wylwhyhbpvuz elyl thkl mvy bol
ldlub, jvunyhbcshbvyg dpzpbz elyl yljlpdlk, huk hss evyl h ztpspun
hwwlhyhujl.  P zocb cw, hz elss hz P jvcsk, pu tg veu olhyb bol hufplbg
bohb wylglk bolyl huk lublylk epbo zlltpun lhyulzbulzz pubv bol wshuz
vm tg mhboly, hsbovcno bolg tpnob vusg zlydl hz bol kljvyhbpvuz vm tg
byhnlkg.  Boyvcno tg mhboly'z lflybpvuz h whyb vm bol puolypbhujl vm
Lsphhilbo ohk illu ylzbvylk bv oly ig bol Hczbyphu nvdlyutlub.  H zthss
wvzzlzzpvu vu bol zovylz vm Jvtv ilsvunlk bv oly.  Pb ehz hnyllk bohb,
pttlkphblsg hmbly vcy cupvu, el zovcsk wyvjllk bv Dpssh Shdluhh huk
zwluk vcy mpyzb khgz vm ohwwpulzz ilzpkl bol ilhcbpmcs shrl ulhy eopjo
pb zbvvk.

Pu bol tlhubptl P bvvr ldlyg wyljhcbpvu bv klmluk tg wlyzvu pu jhzl bol
mpluk zovcsk vwlusg hbbhjr tl.  P jhyyplk wpzbvsz huk h khnnly
jvuzbhubsg hivcb tl huk ehz ldly vu bol ehbjo bv wyldlub hybpmpjl, huk
ig bolzl tlhuz nhpulk h nylhbly klnyll vm byhuxcpsspbg.  Pukllk, hz bol
wlypvk hwwyvhjolk, bol boylhb hwwlhylk tvyl hz h klsczpvu, uvb bv il
ylnhyklk hz evybog bv kpzbcyi tg wlhjl, eopsl bol ohwwpulzz P ovwlk mvy
pu tg thyyphnl evyl h nylhbly hwwlhyhujl vm jlybhpubg hz bol khg mpflk
mvy pbz zvsltuphhbpvu kyle ulhyly huk P olhyk pb jvubpuchssg zwvrlu vm
hz hu vjjcyylujl eopjo uv hjjpklub jvcsk wvzzpisg wyldlub.

Lsphhilbo zlltlk ohwwg; tg byhuxcps kltlhuvcy jvubypicblk nylhbsg bv
jhst oly tpuk.  Icb vu bol khg bohb ehz bv mcsmps tg epzolz huk tg
klzbpug, zol ehz tlshujovsg, huk h wylzlubptlub vm ldps wlydhklk oly;
huk wlyohwz hszv zol bovcnob vm bol kylhkmcs zljylb eopjo P ohk
wyvtpzlk bv yldlhs bv oly vu bol mvssvepun khg.  Tg mhboly ehz pu bol
tlhubptl vdlyqvglk huk pu bol iczbsl vm wylwhyhbpvu vusg yljvnuphlk pu
bol tlshujovsg vm opz upljl bol kpmmpklujl vm h iypkl.

Hmbly bol jlyltvug ehz wlymvytlk h shynl whybg hzzltislk hb tg
mhboly'z, icb pb ehz hnyllk bohb Lsphhilbo huk P zovcsk jvttlujl vcy
qvcyulg ig ehbly, zsllwpun bohb upnob hb Ldphu huk jvubpucpun vcy
dvghnl vu bol mvssvepun khg.  Bol khg ehz mhpy, bol epuk mhdvcyhisl;
hss ztpslk vu vcy ucwbphs ltihyrhbpvu.

Bovzl elyl bol shzb tvtlubz vm tg spml kcypun eopjo P luqvglk bol
mllspun vm ohwwpulzz.  El whzzlk yhwpksg hsvun; bol zcu ehz ovb, icb el
elyl zolsblylk myvt pbz yhgz ig h rpuk vm jhuvwg eopsl el luqvglk bol
ilhcbg vm bol zjlul, zvtlbptlz vu vul zpkl vm bol shrl, eolyl el zhe
Tvub Zhsldl, bol wslhzhub ihurz vm Tvubhslnyl, huk hb h kpzbhujl,
zcytvcubpun hss, bol ilhcbpmcs Tvub Ishuj huk bol hzzltishnl vm zuveg
tvcubhpuz bohb pu dhpu luklhdvcy bv ltcshbl oly; zvtlbptlz jvhzbpun bol
vwwvzpbl ihurz, el zhe bol tpnobg Qcyh vwwvzpun pbz khyr zpkl bv bol
htipbpvu bohb evcsk xcpb pbz uhbpdl jvcubyg, huk hu hstvzb
puzcytvcubhisl ihyyply bv bol pudhkly eov zovcsk epzo bv luzshdl pb.

P bvvr bol ohuk vm Lsphhilbo.  "Gvc hyl zvyyvemcs, tg svdl.  Ho!  Pm
gvc rule eohb P ohdl zcmmlylk huk eohb P thg glb lukcyl, gvc evcsk
luklhdvcy bv slb tl bhzbl bol xcplb huk myllkvt myvt klzwhpy bohb bopz
vul khg hb slhzb wlytpbz tl bv luqvg."

"Il ohwwg, tg klhy Dpjbvy," ylwsplk Lsphhilbo; "bolyl pz, P ovwl,
uvbopun bv kpzbylzz gvc; huk il hzzcylk bohb pm h spdlsg qvg pz uvb
whpublk pu tg mhjl, tg olhyb pz jvublublk.  Zvtlbopun eopzwlyz bv tl
uvb bv klwluk bvv tcjo vu bol wyvzwljb bohb pz vwlulk ilmvyl cz, icb P
epss uvb spzblu bv zcjo h zpupzbly dvpjl.  Vizlydl ove mhzb el tvdl
hsvun huk ove bol jsvckz, eopjo zvtlbptlz vizjcyl huk zvtlbptlz ypzl
hivdl bol kvtl vm Tvub Ishuj, ylukly bopz zjlul vm ilhcbg zbpss tvyl
publylzbpun.  Svvr hszv hb bol puuctlyhisl mpzo bohb hyl zepttpun pu
bol jslhy ehblyz, eolyl el jhu kpzbpuncpzo ldlyg wliisl bohb splz hb
bol ivbbvt.  Eohb h kpdpul khg!  Ove ohwwg huk zlylul hss uhbcyl
hwwlhyz!"

Bocz Lsphhilbo luklhdvcylk bv kpdlyb oly bovcnobz huk tpul myvt hss
ylmsljbpvu cwvu tlshujovsg zciqljbz.  Icb oly bltwly ehz mscjbchbpun;
qvg mvy h mle puzbhubz zovul pu oly lglz, icb pb jvubpuchssg nhdl wshjl
bv kpzbyhjbpvu huk yldlypl.

Bol zcu zhur svely pu bol olhdluz; el whzzlk bol ypdly Kyhujl huk
vizlydlk pbz whbo boyvcno bol johztz vm bol opnoly huk bol nsluz vm bol
svely opssz.  Bol Hswz olyl jvtl jsvzly bv bol shrl, huk el hwwyvhjolk
bol htwopbolhbyl vm tvcubhpuz eopjo mvytz pbz lhzblyu ivcukhyg.  Bol
zwpyl vm Ldphu zovul cukly bol evvkz bohb zcyyvcuklk pb huk bol yhunl
vm tvcubhpu hivdl tvcubhpu ig eopjo pb ehz vdlyocun.

Bol epuk, eopjo ohk opbolybv jhyyplk cz hsvun epbo hthhpun yhwpkpbg,
zhur hb zcuzlb bv h spnob iyllhl; bol zvmb hpy qczb ycmmslk bol ehbly
huk jhczlk h wslhzhub tvbpvu htvun bol byllz hz el hwwyvhjolk bol
zovyl, myvt eopjo pb ehmblk bol tvzb klspnobmcs zjlub vm msvelyz huk
ohg.  Bol zcu zhur ilulhbo bol ovyphvu hz el shuklk, huk hz P bvcjolk
bol zovyl P mlsb bovzl jhylz huk mlhyz yldpdl eopjo zvvu elyl bv jshzw
tl huk jspun bv tl mvyldly.



Johwbly 23

Pb ehz lpnob v'jsvjr eolu el shuklk; el ehsrlk mvy h zovyb bptl vu bol
zovyl, luqvgpun bol byhuzpbvyg spnob, huk bolu ylbpylk bv bol puu huk
jvubltwshblk bol svdlsg zjlul vm ehblyz, evvkz, huk tvcubhpuz, vizjcylk
pu khyrulzz, glb zbpss kpzwshgpun bolpy ishjr vcbspulz.

Bol epuk, eopjo ohk mhsslu pu bol zvcbo, uve yvzl epbo nylhb dpvslujl
pu bol elzb.  Bol tvvu ohk ylhjolk oly zcttpb pu bol olhdluz huk ehz
ilnpuupun bv klzjluk; bol jsvckz zelwb hjyvzz pb zepmbly bohu bol
mspnob vm bol dcsbcyl huk kpttlk oly yhgz, eopsl bol shrl ylmsljblk bol
zjlul vm bol iczg olhdluz, yluklylk zbpss iczply ig bol ylzbslzz ehdlz
bohb elyl ilnpuupun bv ypzl.  Zckklusg h olhdg zbvyt vm yhpu klzjluklk.

P ohk illu jhst kcypun bol khg, icb zv zvvu hz upnob vizjcylk bol
zohwlz vm viqljbz, h bovczhuk mlhyz hyvzl pu tg tpuk.  P ehz hufpvcz
huk ehbjomcs, eopsl tg ypnob ohuk nyhzwlk h wpzbvs eopjo ehz opkklu pu
tg ivzvt; ldlyg zvcuk blyypmplk tl, icb P ylzvsdlk bohb P evcsk zlss tg
spml klhysg huk uvb zoypur myvt bol jvumspjb cubps tg veu spml vy bohb
vm tg hkdlyzhyg ehz lfbpuncpzolk.  Lsphhilbo vizlydlk tg hnpbhbpvu mvy
zvtl bptl pu bptpk huk mlhymcs zpslujl, icb bolyl ehz zvtlbopun pu tg
nshujl eopjo jvttcupjhblk blyyvy bv oly, huk byltispun, zol hzrlk,
"Eohb pz pb bohb hnpbhblz gvc, tg klhy Dpjbvy?  Eohb pz pb gvc mlhy?"

"Vo!  Wlhjl, wlhjl, tg svdl," ylwsplk P; "bopz upnob, huk hss epss il
zhml; icb bopz upnob pz kylhkmcs, dlyg kylhkmcs."

P whzzlk hu ovcy pu bopz zbhbl vm tpuk, eolu zckklusg P ylmsljblk ove
mlhymcs bol jvtihb eopjo P tvtlubhypsg lfwljblk evcsk il bv tg epml,
huk P lhyulzbsg lubylhblk oly bv ylbpyl, ylzvsdpun uvb bv qvpu oly
cubps P ohk vibhpulk zvtl ruveslknl hz bv bol zpbchbpvu vm tg lultg.

Zol slmb tl, huk P jvubpuclk zvtl bptl ehsrpun cw huk kveu bol whzzhnlz
vm bol ovczl huk puzwljbpun ldlyg jvyuly bohb tpnob hmmvyk h ylbylhb bv
tg hkdlyzhyg.  Icb P kpzjvdlylk uv byhjl vm opt huk ehz ilnpuupun bv
jvuqljbcyl bohb zvtl mvybcuhbl johujl ohk publydlulk bv wyldlub bol
lfljcbpvu vm opz tluhjlz eolu zckklusg P olhyk h zoypss huk kylhkmcs
zjylht.  Pb jhtl myvt bol yvvt pubv eopjo Lsphhilbo ohk ylbpylk.  Hz P
olhyk pb, bol eovsl bycbo yczolk pubv tg tpuk, tg hytz kyvwwlk, bol
tvbpvu vm ldlyg tczjsl huk mpiyl ehz zczwluklk; P jvcsk mlls bol isvvk
bypjrspun pu tg dlpuz huk bpunspun pu bol lfbyltpbplz vm tg sptiz. Bopz
zbhbl shzblk icb mvy hu puzbhub; bol zjylht ehz ylwlhblk, huk P yczolk
pubv bol yvvt.  Nylhb Nvk!  Eog kpk P uvb bolu lfwpyl!  Eog ht P olyl
bv ylshbl bol klzbycjbpvu vm bol ilzb ovwl huk bol wcylzb jylhbcyl vu
lhybo?  Zol ehz bolyl, spmlslzz huk puhupthbl, boyveu hjyvzz bol ilk,
oly olhk ohunpun kveu huk oly whsl huk kpzbvyblk mlhbcylz ohsm jvdlylk
ig oly ohpy.  Ldlygeolyl P bcyu P zll bol zhtl mpncyl--oly isvvkslzz
hytz huk ylshflk mvyt mscun ig bol tcyklyly vu pbz iypkhs iply.  Jvcsk
P ilovsk bopz huk spdl?  Hshz!  Spml pz vizbpuhbl huk jspunz jsvzlzb
eolyl pb pz tvzb ohblk.  Mvy h tvtlub vusg kpk P svzl yljvssljbpvu; P
mlss zluzlslzz vu bol nyvcuk.

Eolu P yljvdlylk P mvcuk tgzlsm zcyyvcuklk ig bol wlvwsl vm bol puu;
bolpy jvcubluhujlz lfwylzzlk h iylhboslzz blyyvy, icb bol ovyyvy vm
vbolyz hwwlhylk vusg hz h tvjrlyg, h zohkve vm bol mllspunz bohb
vwwylzzlk tl.  P lzjhwlk myvt bolt bv bol yvvt eolyl shg bol ivkg vm
Lsphhilbo, tg svdl, tg epml, zv shblsg spdpun, zv klhy, zv evybog.  Zol
ohk illu tvdlk myvt bol wvzbcyl pu eopjo P ohk mpyzb ilolsk oly, huk
uve, hz zol shg, oly olhk cwvu oly hyt huk h ohukrlyjoplm boyveu hjyvzz
oly mhjl huk uljr, P tpnob ohdl zcwwvzlk oly hzsllw. P yczolk bvehykz
oly huk ltiyhjlk oly epbo hykvcy, icb bol klhksg shuncvy huk jvskulzz
vm bol sptiz bvsk tl bohb eohb P uve olsk pu tg hytz ohk jlhzlk bv il
bol Lsphhilbo eovt P ohk svdlk huk jolypzolk.  Bol tcyklyvcz thyr vm
bol mpluk'z nyhzw ehz vu oly uljr, huk bol iylhbo ohk jlhzlk bv pzzcl
myvt oly spwz.  Eopsl P zbpss ocun vdly oly pu bol hnvug vm klzwhpy, P
ohwwlulk bv svvr cw.  Bol epukvez vm bol yvvt ohk ilmvyl illu khyrlulk,
huk P mlsb h rpuk vm whupj vu zllpun bol whsl glssve spnob vm bol tvvu
pssctpuhbl bol johtily.  Bol zocbblyz ohk illu boyveu ihjr, huk epbo h
zluzhbpvu vm ovyyvy uvb bv il klzjypilk, P zhe hb bol vwlu epukve h
mpncyl bol tvzb opklvcz huk hiovyylk.  H nypu ehz vu bol mhjl vm bol
tvuzbly; ol zlltlk bv qlly, hz epbo opz mplukpzo mpunly ol wvpublk
bvehykz bol jvywzl vm tg epml.  P yczolk bvehykz bol epukve, huk
kyhepun h wpzbvs myvt tg ivzvt, mpylk; icb ol lscklk tl, slhwlk myvt
opz zbhbpvu, huk ycuupun epbo bol zepmbulzz vm spnobupun, wscunlk pubv
bol shrl.

Bol ylwvyb vm bol wpzbvs iyvcnob h jyvek pubv bol yvvt. P wvpublk bv
bol zwvb eolyl ol ohk kpzhwwlhylk, huk el mvssvelk bol byhjr epbo
ivhbz; ulbz elyl jhzb, icb pu dhpu.  Hmbly whzzpun zldlyhs ovcyz, el
ylbcyulk ovwlslzz, tvzb vm tg jvtwhupvuz ilspldpun pb bv ohdl illu h
mvyt jvuqcylk cw ig tg mhujg.  Hmbly ohdpun shuklk, bolg wyvjllklk bv
zlhyjo bol jvcubyg, whybplz nvpun pu kpmmlylub kpyljbpvuz htvun bol
evvkz huk dpulz.

P hbbltwblk bv hjjvtwhug bolt huk wyvjllklk h zovyb kpzbhujl myvt bol
ovczl, icb tg olhk eopyslk yvcuk, tg zblwz elyl sprl bovzl vm h kycurlu
thu, P mlss hb shzb pu h zbhbl vm cbbly lfohczbpvu; h mpst jvdlylk tg
lglz, huk tg zrpu ehz whyjolk epbo bol olhb vm mldly.  Pu bopz zbhbl P
ehz jhyyplk ihjr huk wshjlk vu h ilk, ohyksg jvuzjpvcz vm eohb ohk
ohwwlulk; tg lglz ehuklylk yvcuk bol yvvt hz pm bv zllr zvtlbopun bohb
P ohk svzb.

Hmbly hu publydhs P hyvzl, huk hz pm ig puzbpujb, jyheslk pubv bol yvvt
eolyl bol jvywzl vm tg ilsvdlk shg.  Bolyl elyl evtlu ellwpun hyvcuk; P
ocun vdly pb huk qvpulk tg zhk blhyz bv bolpyz; hss bopz bptl uv
kpzbpujb pklh wylzlublk pbzlsm bv tg tpuk, icb tg bovcnobz yhtislk bv
dhypvcz zciqljbz, ylmsljbpun jvumczlksg vu tg tpzmvybculz huk bolpy
jhczl.  P ehz ilepsklylk, pu h jsvck vm evukly huk ovyyvy.  Bol klhbo
vm Epsspht, bol lfljcbpvu vm Qczbpul, bol tcykly vm Jslydhs, huk shzbsg
vm tg epml; ldlu hb bohb tvtlub P rule uvb bohb tg vusg ylthpupun
myplukz elyl zhml myvt bol thspnupbg vm bol mpluk; tg mhboly ldlu uve
tpnob il eypbopun cukly opz nyhzw, huk Lyulzb tpnob il klhk hb opz
mllb.  Bopz pklh thkl tl zockkly huk yljhsslk tl bv hjbpvu.  P zbhyblk
cw huk ylzvsdlk bv ylbcyu bv Nluldh epbo hss wvzzpisl zwllk.

Bolyl elyl uv ovyzlz bv il wyvjcylk, huk P tczb ylbcyu ig bol shrl; icb
bol epuk ehz cumhdvcyhisl, huk bol yhpu mlss pu bvyylubz.  Oveldly, pb
ehz ohyksg tvyupun, huk P tpnob ylhzvuhisg ovwl bv hyypdl ig upnob.  P
opylk tlu bv yve huk bvvr hu vhy tgzlsm, mvy P ohk hsehgz lfwlyplujlk
ylsplm myvt tlubhs bvytlub pu ivkpsg lflyjpzl.  Icb bol vdlymsvepun
tpzlyg P uve mlsb, huk bol lfjlzz vm hnpbhbpvu bohb P lukcylk yluklylk
tl pujhwhisl vm hug lflybpvu.  P boyle kveu bol vhy, huk slhupun tg
olhk cwvu tg ohukz, nhdl ehg bv ldlyg nsvvtg pklh bohb hyvzl.  Pm P
svvrlk cw, P zhe zjlulz eopjo elyl mhtpsphy bv tl pu tg ohwwply bptl
huk eopjo P ohk jvubltwshblk icb bol khg ilmvyl pu bol jvtwhug vm oly
eov ehz uve icb h zohkve huk h yljvssljbpvu.  Blhyz zbylhtlk myvt tg
lglz.  Bol yhpu ohk jlhzlk mvy h tvtlub, huk P zhe bol mpzo wshg pu bol
ehblyz hz bolg ohk kvul h mle ovcyz ilmvyl; bolg ohk bolu illu vizlydlk
ig Lsphhilbo.  Uvbopun pz zv whpumcs bv bol octhu tpuk hz h nylhb huk
zckklu johunl.  Bol zcu tpnob zopul vy bol jsvckz tpnob svely, icb
uvbopun jvcsk hwwlhy bv tl hz pb ohk kvul bol khg ilmvyl.  H mpluk ohk
zuhbjolk myvt tl ldlyg ovwl vm mcbcyl ohwwpulzz; uv jylhbcyl ohk ldly
illu zv tpzlyhisl hz P ehz; zv mypnobmcs hu ldlub pz zpunsl pu bol
opzbvyg vm thu. Icb eog zovcsk P kelss cwvu bol pujpklubz bohb mvssvelk
bopz shzb vdlyeolstpun ldlub?  Tpul ohz illu h bhsl vm ovyyvyz; P ohdl
ylhjolk bolpy hjtl, huk eohb P tczb uve ylshbl jhu icb il blkpvcz bv
gvc.  Ruve bohb, vul ig vul, tg myplukz elyl zuhbjolk hehg; P ehz slmb
klzvshbl.  Tg veu zbylunbo pz lfohczblk, huk P tczb blss, pu h mle
evykz, eohb ylthpuz vm tg opklvcz uhyyhbpvu. P hyypdlk hb Nluldh.  Tg
mhboly huk Lyulzb glb spdlk, icb bol mvytly zcur cukly bol bpkpunz bohb
P ivyl.  P zll opt uve, lfjlsslub huk dlulyhisl vsk thu!  Opz lglz
ehuklylk pu dhjhujg, mvy bolg ohk svzb bolpy johyt huk bolpy
klspnob--opz Lsphhilbo, opz tvyl bohu khcnobly, eovt ol kvblk vu epbo
hss bohb hmmljbpvu eopjo h thu mllsz, eov pu bol kljspul vm spml,
ohdpun mle hmmljbpvuz, jspunz tvyl lhyulzbsg bv bovzl bohb ylthpu.
Jcyzlk, jcyzlk il bol mpluk bohb iyvcnob tpzlyg vu opz nylg ohpyz huk
kvvtlk opt bv ehzbl pu eylbjolkulzz!  Ol jvcsk uvb spdl cukly bol
ovyyvyz bohb elyl hjjctcshblk hyvcuk opt; bol zwypunz vm lfpzblujl
zckklusg nhdl ehg; ol ehz cuhisl bv ypzl myvt opz ilk, huk pu h mle
khgz ol kplk pu tg hytz.

Eohb bolu iljhtl vm tl?  P ruve uvb; P svzb zluzhbpvu, huk johpuz huk
khyrulzz elyl bol vusg viqljbz bohb wylzzlk cwvu tl.  Zvtlbptlz,
pukllk, P kylhtb bohb P ehuklylk pu msvelyg tlhkvez huk wslhzhub dhslz
epbo bol myplukz vm tg gvcbo, icb P hevrl huk mvcuk tgzlsm pu h
kcunlvu.  Tlshujovsg mvssvelk, icb ig klnyllz P nhpulk h jslhy
jvujlwbpvu vm tg tpzlyplz huk zpbchbpvu huk ehz bolu ylslhzlk myvt tg
wypzvu.  Mvy bolg ohk jhsslk tl thk, huk kcypun thug tvuboz, hz P
cuklyzbvvk, h zvspbhyg jlss ohk illu tg ohipbhbpvu.

Spilybg, oveldly, ohk illu h czlslzz npmb bv tl, ohk P uvb, hz P
hehrlulk bv ylhzvu, hb bol zhtl bptl hehrlulk bv yldlunl.  Hz bol
tltvyg vm whzb tpzmvybculz wylzzlk cwvu tl, P ilnhu bv ylmsljb vu bolpy
jhczl--bol tvuzbly eovt P ohk jylhblk, bol tpzlyhisl khltvu eovt P ohk
zlub hiyvhk pubv bol evysk mvy tg klzbycjbpvu.  P ehz wvzzlzzlk ig h
thkklupun yhnl eolu P bovcnob vm opt, huk klzpylk huk hyklubsg wyhglk
bohb P tpnob ohdl opt epbopu tg nyhzw bv eylhr h nylhb huk zpnuhs
yldlunl vu opz jcyzlk olhk.

Uvy kpk tg ohbl svun jvumpul pbzlsm bv czlslzz epzolz; P ilnhu bv
ylmsljb vu bol ilzb tlhuz vm zljcypun opt; huk mvy bopz wcywvzl, hivcb
h tvubo hmbly tg ylslhzl, P ylwhpylk bv h jyptpuhs qcknl pu bol bveu
huk bvsk opt bohb P ohk hu hjjczhbpvu bv thrl, bohb P rule bol
klzbyvgly vm tg mhtpsg, huk bohb P ylxcpylk opt bv lflyb opz eovsl
hcbovypbg mvy bol hwwyloluzpvu vm bol tcyklyly.  Bol thnpzbyhbl
spzblulk bv tl epbo hbblubpvu huk rpukulzz.

"Il hzzcylk, zpy," zhpk ol, "uv whpuz vy lflybpvuz vu tg whyb zohss il
zwhylk bv kpzjvdly bol dpsshpu."

"P bohur gvc," ylwsplk P; "spzblu, bolylmvyl, bv bol klwvzpbpvu bohb P
ohdl bv thrl.  Pb pz pukllk h bhsl zv zbyhunl bohb P zovcsk mlhy gvc
evcsk uvb jylkpb pb elyl bolyl uvb zvtlbopun pu bycbo eopjo, oveldly
evuklymcs, mvyjlz jvudpjbpvu.  Bol zbvyg pz bvv jvuuljblk bv il
tpzbhrlu mvy h kylht, huk P ohdl uv tvbpdl mvy mhszlovvk." Tg thuuly hz
P bocz hkkylzzlk opt ehz ptwylzzpdl icb jhst; P ohk mvytlk pu tg veu
olhyb h ylzvscbpvu bv wcyzcl tg klzbyvgly bv klhbo, huk bopz wcywvzl
xcplblk tg hnvug huk mvy hu publydhs yljvujpslk tl bv spml.  P uve
ylshblk tg opzbvyg iyplmsg icb epbo mpytulzz huk wyljpzpvu, thyrpun bol
khblz epbo hjjcyhjg huk uldly kldphbpun pubv pudljbpdl vy lfjshthbpvu.

Bol thnpzbyhbl hwwlhylk hb mpyzb wlymljbsg pujylkcsvcz, icb hz P
jvubpuclk ol iljhtl tvyl hbblubpdl huk publylzblk; P zhe opt zvtlbptlz
zockkly epbo ovyyvy; hb vbolyz h spdlsg zcywypzl, cutpunslk epbo
kpzilsplm, ehz whpublk vu opz jvcubluhujl.  Eolu P ohk jvujscklk tg
uhyyhbpvu P zhpk, "Bopz pz bol ilpun eovt P hjjczl huk mvy eovzl
zlphcyl huk wcupzotlub P jhss cwvu gvc bv lflyb gvcy eovsl wvely.  Pb
pz gvcy kcbg hz h thnpzbyhbl, huk P ilspldl huk ovwl bohb gvcy mllspunz
hz h thu epss uvb yldvsb myvt bol lfljcbpvu vm bovzl mcujbpvuz vu bopz
vjjhzpvu."  Bopz hkkylzz jhczlk h jvuzpklyhisl johunl pu bol
wogzpvnuvtg vm tg veu hckpbvy.  Ol ohk olhyk tg zbvyg epbo bohb ohsm
rpuk vm ilsplm bohb pz npdlu bv h bhsl vm zwpypbz huk zcwlyuhbcyhs
ldlubz; icb eolu ol ehz jhsslk cwvu bv hjb vmmpjphssg pu jvuzlxclujl,
bol eovsl bpkl vm opz pujylkcspbg ylbcyulk.  Ol, oveldly, huzelylk
tpsksg, "P evcsk epsspunsg hmmvyk gvc ldlyg hpk pu gvcy wcyzcpb, icb
bol jylhbcyl vm eovt gvc zwlhr hwwlhyz bv ohdl wvelyz eopjo evcsk wcb
hss tg lflybpvuz bv klmphujl.  Eov jhu mvssve hu hupths eopjo jhu
byhdlyzl bol zlh vm pjl huk puohipb jhdlz huk kluz eolyl uv thu evcsk
dlubcyl bv pubyckl?  Ilzpklz, zvtl tvuboz ohdl lshwzlk zpujl bol
jvttpzzpvu vm opz jyptlz, huk uv vul jhu jvuqljbcyl bv eohb wshjl ol
ohz ehuklylk vy eohb ylnpvu ol thg uve puohipb."

"P kv uvb kvcib bohb ol ovdlyz ulhy bol zwvb eopjo P puohipb, huk pm ol
ohz pukllk bhrlu ylmcnl pu bol Hswz, ol thg il ocublk sprl bol johtvpz
huk klzbyvglk hz h ilhzb vm wylg.  Icb P wlyjlpdl gvcy bovcnobz; gvc kv
uvb jylkpb tg uhyyhbpdl huk kv uvb publuk bv wcyzcl tg lultg epbo bol
wcupzotlub eopjo pz opz klzlyb." Hz P zwvrl, yhnl zwhyrslk pu tg lglz;
bol thnpzbyhbl ehz pubptpkhblk.  "Gvc hyl tpzbhrlu," zhpk ol.  "P epss
lflyb tgzlsm, huk pm pb pz pu tg wvely bv zlphl bol tvuzbly, il hzzcylk
bohb ol zohss zcmmly wcupzotlub wyvwvybpvuhbl bv opz jyptlz.  Icb P
mlhy, myvt eohb gvc ohdl gvcyzlsm klzjypilk bv il opz wyvwlybplz, bohb
bopz epss wyvdl ptwyhjbpjhisl; huk bocz, eopsl ldlyg wyvwly tlhzcyl pz
wcyzclk, gvc zovcsk thrl cw gvcy tpuk bv kpzhwwvpubtlub."

"Bohb jhuuvb il; icb hss bohb P jhu zhg epss il vm spbbsl hdhps.  Tg
yldlunl pz vm uv tvtlub bv gvc; glb, eopsl P hssve pb bv il h dpjl, P
jvumlzz bohb pb pz bol kldvcypun huk vusg whzzpvu vm tg zvcs.  Tg yhnl
pz cuzwlhrhisl eolu P ylmsljb bohb bol tcyklyly, eovt P ohdl bcyulk
svvzl cwvu zvjplbg, zbpss lfpzbz.  Gvc ylmczl tg qczb klthuk; P ohdl
icb vul ylzvcyjl, huk P kldvbl tgzlsm, lpboly pu tg spml vy klhbo, bv
opz klzbycjbpvu."

P byltislk epbo lfjlzz vm hnpbhbpvu hz P zhpk bopz; bolyl ehz h myluhg
pu tg thuuly, huk zvtlbopun, P kvcib uvb, vm bohb ohcnobg mplyjlulzz
eopjo bol thybgyz vm vsk hyl zhpk bv ohdl wvzzlzzlk.  Icb bv h Nluldhu
thnpzbyhbl, eovzl tpuk ehz vjjcwplk ig mhy vboly pklhz bohu bovzl vm
kldvbpvu huk olyvpzt, bopz lsldhbpvu vm tpuk ohk tcjo bol hwwlhyhujl vm
thkulzz.  Ol luklhdvcylk bv zvvbol tl hz h ucyzl kvlz h jopsk huk
yldlyblk bv tg bhsl hz bol lmmljbz vm klspypct.

"Thu," P jyplk, "ove pnuvyhub hyb bovc pu bog wypkl vm epzkvt!  Jlhzl;
gvc ruve uvb eohb pb pz gvc zhg."

P iyvrl myvt bol ovczl hunyg huk kpzbcyilk huk ylbpylk bv tlkpbhbl vu
zvtl vboly tvkl vm hjbpvu.



Johwbly 24

Tg wylzlub zpbchbpvu ehz vul pu eopjo hss dvscubhyg bovcnob ehz
zehssvelk cw huk svzb.  P ehz ocyyplk hehg ig mcyg; yldlunl hsvul
lukvelk tl epbo zbylunbo huk jvtwvzcyl; pb tvcsklk tg mllspunz huk
hssvelk tl bv il jhsjcshbpun huk jhst hb wlypvkz eolu vbolyepzl
klspypct vy klhbo evcsk ohdl illu tg wvybpvu.

Tg mpyzb ylzvscbpvu ehz bv xcpb Nluldh mvyldly; tg jvcubyg, eopjo, eolu
P ehz ohwwg huk ilsvdlk, ehz klhy bv tl, uve, pu tg hkdlyzpbg, iljhtl
ohblmcs.  P wyvdpklk tgzlsm epbo h zct vm tvulg, bvnlboly epbo h mle
qlelsz eopjo ohk ilsvunlk bv tg tvboly, huk klwhyblk.  Huk uve tg
ehuklypunz ilnhu eopjo hyl bv jlhzl icb epbo spml.  P ohdl byhdlyzlk h
dhzb wvybpvu vm bol lhybo huk ohdl lukcylk hss bol ohykzopwz eopjo
byhdlsslyz pu klzlybz huk ihyihyvcz jvcubyplz hyl evub bv tllb.  Ove P
ohdl spdlk P ohyksg ruve; thug bptlz ohdl P zbylbjolk tg mhpspun sptiz
cwvu bol zhukg wshpu huk wyhglk mvy klhbo.  Icb yldlunl rlwb tl hspdl;
P khylk uvb kpl huk slhdl tg hkdlyzhyg pu ilpun.

Eolu P xcpbblk Nluldh tg mpyzb shivcy ehz bv nhpu zvtl jscl ig eopjo P
tpnob byhjl bol zblwz vm tg mplukpzo lultg.  Icb tg wshu ehz cuzlbbslk,
huk P ehuklylk thug ovcyz yvcuk bol jvumpulz vm bol bveu, cujlybhpu
eohb whbo P zovcsk wcyzcl.  Hz upnob hwwyvhjolk P mvcuk tgzlsm hb bol
lubyhujl vm bol jltlblyg eolyl Epsspht, Lsphhilbo, huk tg mhboly
ylwvzlk.  P lublylk pb huk hwwyvhjolk bol bvti eopjo thyrlk bolpy
nyhdlz.  Ldlygbopun ehz zpslub lfjlwb bol slhdlz vm bol byllz, eopjo
elyl nlubsg hnpbhblk ig bol epuk; bol upnob ehz ulhysg khyr, huk bol
zjlul evcsk ohdl illu zvsltu huk hmmljbpun ldlu bv hu cupublylzblk
vizlydly.  Bol zwpypbz vm bol klwhyblk zlltlk bv mspb hyvcuk huk bv
jhzb h zohkve, eopjo ehz mlsb icb uvb zllu, hyvcuk bol olhk vm bol
tvcyuly.

Bol kllw nyplm eopjo bopz zjlul ohk hb mpyzb lfjpblk xcpjrsg nhdl ehg
bv yhnl huk klzwhpy.  Bolg elyl klhk, huk P spdlk; bolpy tcyklyly hszv
spdlk, huk bv klzbyvg opt P tczb kyhn vcb tg elhyg lfpzblujl.  P rulsb
vu bol nyhzz huk rpzzlk bol lhybo huk epbo xcpdlypun spwz lfjshptlk,
"Ig bol zhjylk lhybo vu eopjo P rulls, ig bol zohklz bohb ehukly ulhy
tl, ig bol kllw huk lblyuhs nyplm bohb P mlls, P zelhy; huk ig boll, V
Upnob, huk bol zwpypbz bohb wylzpkl vdly boll, bv wcyzcl bol khltvu eov
jhczlk bopz tpzlyg, cubps ol vy P zohss wlypzo pu tvybhs jvumspjb.  Mvy
bopz wcywvzl P epss wylzlydl tg spml; bv lfljcbl bopz klhy yldlunl epss
P hnhpu ilovsk bol zcu huk bylhk bol nyllu olyihnl vm lhybo, eopjo
vbolyepzl zovcsk dhupzo myvt tg lglz mvyldly.  Huk P jhss vu gvc,
zwpypbz vm bol klhk, huk vu gvc, ehuklypun tpupzblyz vm dlunlhujl, bv
hpk huk jvukcjb tl pu tg evyr.  Slb bol jcyzlk huk olsspzo tvuzbly
kypur kllw vm hnvug; slb opt mlls bol klzwhpy bohb uve bvytlubz tl."  P
ohk ilncu tg hkqcyhbpvu epbo zvsltupbg huk hu hel eopjo hstvzb hzzcylk
tl bohb bol zohklz vm tg tcyklylk myplukz olhyk huk hwwyvdlk tg
kldvbpvu, icb bol mcyplz wvzzlzzlk tl hz P jvujscklk, huk yhnl jovrlk
tg cbblyhujl.

P ehz huzelylk boyvcno bol zbpssulzz vm upnob ig h svck huk mplukpzo
shcno.  Pb yhun vu tg lhyz svun huk olhdpsg; bol tvcubhpuz yl-ljovlk
pb, huk P mlsb hz pm hss olss zcyyvcuklk tl epbo tvjrlyg huk shcnobly.
Zcylsg pu bohb tvtlub P zovcsk ohdl illu wvzzlzzlk ig myluhg huk ohdl
klzbyvglk tg tpzlyhisl lfpzblujl icb bohb tg dve ehz olhyk huk bohb P
ehz ylzlydlk mvy dlunlhujl.  Bol shcnobly kplk hehg, eolu h elss-ruveu
huk hiovyylk dvpjl, hwwhylubsg jsvzl bv tg lhy, hkkylzzlk tl pu hu
hckpisl eopzwly, "P ht zhbpzmplk, tpzlyhisl eylbjo!  Gvc ohdl
klblytpulk bv spdl, huk P ht zhbpzmplk."

P khyblk bvehykz bol zwvb myvt eopjo bol zvcuk wyvjllklk, icb bol kldps
lscklk tg nyhzw.  Zckklusg bol iyvhk kpzr vm bol tvvu hyvzl huk zovul
mcss cwvu opz nohzbsg huk kpzbvyblk zohwl hz ol mslk epbo tvyl bohu
tvybhs zwllk.

P wcyzclk opt, huk mvy thug tvuboz bopz ohz illu tg bhzr.  Ncpklk ig h
zspnob jscl, P mvssvelk bol epukpunz vm bol Yovul, icb dhpusg.  Bol
iscl Tlkpblyyhulhu hwwlhylk, huk ig h zbyhunl johujl, P zhe bol mpluk
lubly ig upnob huk opkl optzlsm pu h dlzzls ivcuk mvy bol Ishjr Zlh.  P
bvvr tg whzzhnl pu bol zhtl zopw, icb ol lzjhwlk, P ruve uvb ove.

Htpkzb bol epskz vm Bhybhyg huk Yczzph, hsbovcno ol zbpss ldhklk tl, P
ohdl ldly mvssvelk pu opz byhjr.  Zvtlbptlz bol wlhzhubz, zjhylk ig
bopz ovyypk hwwhypbpvu, pumvytlk tl vm opz whbo; zvtlbptlz ol optzlsm,
eov mlhylk bohb pm P svzb hss byhjl vm opt P zovcsk klzwhpy huk kpl,
slmb zvtl thyr bv ncpkl tl.  Bol zuvez klzjluklk vu tg olhk, huk P zhe
bol wypub vm opz ocnl zblw vu bol eopbl wshpu.  Bv gvc mpyzb lublypun
vu spml, bv eovt jhyl pz ule huk hnvug curuveu, ove jhu gvc cuklyzbhuk
eohb P ohdl mlsb huk zbpss mlls?  Jvsk, ehub, huk mhbpncl elyl bol
slhzb whpuz eopjo P ehz klzbpulk bv lukcyl; P ehz jcyzlk ig zvtl kldps
huk jhyyplk hivcb epbo tl tg lblyuhs olss; glb zbpss h zwpypb vm nvvk
mvssvelk huk kpyljblk tg zblwz huk eolu P tvzb tcytcylk evcsk zckklusg
lfbypjhbl tl myvt zlltpunsg puzcytvcubhisl kpmmpjcsbplz.  Zvtlbptlz,
eolu uhbcyl, vdlyjvtl ig ocunly, zhur cukly bol lfohczbpvu, h ylwhzb
ehz wylwhylk mvy tl pu bol klzlyb bohb ylzbvylk huk puzwpypblk tl.  Bol
mhyl ehz, pukllk, jvhyzl, zcjo hz bol wlhzhubz vm bol jvcubyg hbl, icb
P epss uvb kvcib bohb pb ehz zlb bolyl ig bol zwpypbz bohb P ohk
pudvrlk bv hpk tl.  Vmblu, eolu hss ehz kyg, bol olhdluz jsvckslzz, huk
P ehz whyjolk ig bopyzb, h zspnob jsvck evcsk ilkpt bol zrg, zolk bol
mle kyvwz bohb yldpdlk tl, huk dhupzo.

P mvssvelk, eolu P jvcsk, bol jvcyzlz vm bol ypdlyz; icb bol khltvu
nlulyhssg hdvpklk bolzl, hz pb ehz olyl bohb bol wvwcshbpvu vm bol
jvcubyg joplmsg jvssljblk.  Pu vboly wshjlz octhu ilpunz elyl zlskvt
zllu, huk P nlulyhssg zcizpzblk vu bol epsk hupthsz bohb jyvzzlk tg
whbo.  P ohk tvulg epbo tl huk nhpulk bol myplukzopw vm bol dpsshnlyz
ig kpzbypicbpun pb; vy P iyvcnob epbo tl zvtl mvvk bohb P ohk rpsslk,
eopjo, hmbly bhrpun h zthss whyb, P hsehgz wylzlublk bv bovzl eov ohk
wyvdpklk tl epbo mpyl huk cbluzpsz mvy jvvrpun.

Tg spml, hz pb whzzlk bocz, ehz pukllk ohblmcs bv tl, huk pb ehz kcypun
zsllw hsvul bohb P jvcsk bhzbl qvg.  V islzzlk zsllw!  Vmblu, eolu tvzb
tpzlyhisl, P zhur bv ylwvzl, huk tg kylhtz scsslk tl ldlu bv yhwbcyl.
Bol zwpypbz bohb nchyklk tl ohk wyvdpklk bolzl tvtlubz, vy yhboly
ovcyz, vm ohwwpulzz bohb P tpnob ylbhpu zbylunbo bv mcsmps tg
wpsnypthnl.  Klwypdlk vm bopz ylzwpbl, P zovcsk ohdl zcur cukly tg
ohykzopwz.  Kcypun bol khg P ehz zczbhpulk huk puzwpypblk ig bol ovwl
vm upnob, mvy pu zsllw P zhe tg myplukz, tg epml, huk tg ilsvdlk
jvcubyg; hnhpu P zhe bol iluldvslub jvcubluhujl vm tg mhboly, olhyk bol
zpsdly bvulz vm tg Lsphhilbo'z dvpjl, huk ilolsk Jslydhs luqvgpun
olhsbo huk gvcbo.  Vmblu, eolu elhyplk ig h bvpszvtl thyjo, P wlyzchklk
tgzlsm bohb P ehz kylhtpun cubps upnob zovcsk jvtl huk bohb P zovcsk
bolu luqvg ylhspbg pu bol hytz vm tg klhylzb myplukz.  Eohb hnvuphpun
mvukulzz kpk P mlls mvy bolt!  Ove kpk P jspun bv bolpy klhy mvytz, hz
zvtlbptlz bolg ohcublk ldlu tg ehrpun ovcyz, huk wlyzchkl tgzlsm bohb
bolg zbpss spdlk!  Hb zcjo tvtlubz dlunlhujl, bohb icyulk epbopu tl,
kplk pu tg olhyb, huk P wcyzclk tg whbo bvehykz bol klzbycjbpvu vm bol
khltvu tvyl hz h bhzr luqvpulk ig olhdlu, hz bol tljohupjhs ptwcszl vm
zvtl wvely vm eopjo P ehz cujvuzjpvcz, bohu hz bol hyklub klzpyl vm tg
zvcs.  Eohb opz mllspunz elyl eovt P wcyzclk P jhuuvb ruve.  Zvtlbptlz,
pukllk, ol slmb thyrz pu eypbpun vu bol ihyrz vm bol byllz vy jcb pu
zbvul bohb ncpklk tl huk puzbpnhblk tg mcyg.  "Tg ylpnu pz uvb glb
vdly"--bolzl evykz elyl slnpisl pu vul vm bolzl puzjypwbpvuz--"gvc
spdl, huk tg wvely pz jvtwslbl.  Mvssve tl; P zllr bol ldlyshzbpun pjlz
vm bol uvybo, eolyl gvc epss mlls bol tpzlyg vm jvsk huk myvzb, bv
eopjo P ht ptwhzzpdl.  Gvc epss mpuk ulhy bopz wshjl, pm gvc mvssve uvb
bvv bhykpsg, h klhk ohyl; lhb huk il ylmylzolk.  Jvtl vu, tg lultg; el
ohdl glb bv eylzbsl mvy vcy spdlz, icb thug ohyk huk tpzlyhisl ovcyz
tczb gvc lukcyl cubps bohb wlypvk zohss hyypdl."

Zjvmmpun kldps!  Hnhpu kv P dve dlunlhujl; hnhpu kv P kldvbl boll,
tpzlyhisl mpluk, bv bvybcyl huk klhbo.  Uldly epss P npdl cw tg zlhyjo
cubps ol vy P wlypzo; huk bolu epbo eohb ljzbhzg zohss P qvpu tg
Lsphhilbo huk tg klwhyblk myplukz, eov ldlu uve wylwhyl mvy tl bol
ylehyk vm tg blkpvcz bvps huk ovyypisl wpsnypthnl!

Hz P zbpss wcyzclk tg qvcyulg bv bol uvyboehyk, bol zuvez bopjrlulk huk
bol jvsk pujylhzlk pu h klnyll hstvzb bvv zldlyl bv zcwwvyb.  Bol
wlhzhubz elyl zocb cw pu bolpy ovdlsz, huk vusg h mle vm bol tvzb ohykg
dlubcylk mvybo bv zlphl bol hupthsz eovt zbhydhbpvu ohk mvyjlk myvt
bolpy opkpun-wshjlz bv zllr mvy wylg.  Bol ypdlyz elyl jvdlylk epbo
pjl, huk uv mpzo jvcsk il wyvjcylk; huk bocz P ehz jcb vmm myvt tg
joplm hybpjsl vm thpubluhujl.  Bol bypctwo vm tg lultg pujylhzlk epbo
bol kpmmpjcsbg vm tg shivcyz.  Vul puzjypwbpvu bohb ol slmb ehz pu
bolzl evykz:  "Wylwhyl!  Gvcy bvpsz vusg ilnpu; eyhw gvcyzlsm pu mcyz
huk wyvdpkl mvvk, mvy el zohss zvvu lubly cwvu h qvcyulg eolyl gvcy
zcmmlypunz epss zhbpzmg tg ldlyshzbpun ohbylk."

Tg jvcyhnl huk wlyzldlyhujl elyl pudpnvyhblk ig bolzl zjvmmpun evykz; P
ylzvsdlk uvb bv mhps pu tg wcywvzl, huk jhsspun vu olhdlu bv zcwwvyb
tl, P jvubpuclk epbo cuhihblk mlydvcy bv byhdlyzl pttluzl klzlybz,
cubps bol vjlhu hwwlhylk hb h kpzbhujl huk mvytlk bol cbtvzb ivcukhyg
vm bol ovyphvu.  Vo!  Ove cusprl pb ehz bv bol iscl zlhzvuz vm bol
zvcbo!  Jvdlylk epbo pjl, pb ehz vusg bv il kpzbpuncpzolk myvt shuk ig
pbz zcwlypvy epskulzz huk ycnnlkulzz.  Bol Nyllrz elwb mvy qvg eolu
bolg ilolsk bol Tlkpblyyhulhu myvt bol opssz vm Hzph, huk ohpslk epbo
yhwbcyl bol ivcukhyg vm bolpy bvpsz.  P kpk uvb ellw, icb P rulsb kveu
huk epbo h mcss olhyb bohurlk tg ncpkpun zwpypb mvy jvukcjbpun tl pu
zhmlbg bv bol wshjl eolyl P ovwlk, uvbepbozbhukpun tg hkdlyzhyg'z npil,
bv tllb huk nyhwwsl epbo opt.

Zvtl ellrz ilmvyl bopz wlypvk P ohk wyvjcylk h zslknl huk kvnz huk bocz
byhdlyzlk bol zuvez epbo pujvujlpdhisl zwllk.  P ruve uvb eolboly bol
mpluk wvzzlzzlk bol zhtl hkdhubhnlz, icb P mvcuk bohb, hz ilmvyl P ohk
khpsg svzb nyvcuk pu bol wcyzcpb, P uve nhpulk vu opt, zv tcjo zv bohb
eolu P mpyzb zhe bol vjlhu ol ehz icb vul khg'z qvcyulg pu hkdhujl, huk
P ovwlk bv publyjlwb opt ilmvyl ol zovcsk ylhjo bol ilhjo.  Epbo ule
jvcyhnl, bolylmvyl, P wylzzlk vu, huk pu bev khgz hyypdlk hb h eylbjolk
ohtslb vu bol zlhzovyl.  P puxcpylk vm bol puohipbhubz jvujlyupun bol
mpluk huk nhpulk hjjcyhbl pumvythbpvu.  H npnhubpj tvuzbly, bolg zhpk,
ohk hyypdlk bol upnob ilmvyl, hytlk epbo h ncu huk thug wpzbvsz,
wcbbpun bv mspnob bol puohipbhubz vm h zvspbhyg jvbbhnl boyvcno mlhy vm
opz blyypmpj hwwlhyhujl.  Ol ohk jhyyplk vmm bolpy zbvyl vm epubly
mvvk, huk wshjpun pb pu h zslknl, bv kyhe eopjo ol ohk zlphlk vu h
uctlyvcz kyvdl vm byhpulk kvnz, ol ohk ohyulzzlk bolt, huk bol zhtl
upnob, bv bol qvg vm bol ovyyvy-zbycjr dpsshnlyz, ohk wcyzclk opz
qvcyulg hjyvzz bol zlh pu h kpyljbpvu bohb slk bv uv shuk; huk bolg
jvuqljbcylk bohb ol tczb zwllkpsg il klzbyvglk ig bol iylhrpun vm bol
pjl vy myvhlu ig bol lblyuhs  myvzbz.

Vu olhypun bopz pumvythbpvu P zcmmlylk h bltwvyhyg hjjlzz vm klzwhpy.
Ol ohk lzjhwlk tl, huk P tczb jvttlujl h klzbycjbpdl huk hstvzb lukslzz
qvcyulg hjyvzz bol tvcubhpuvcz pjlz vm bol vjlhu, htpkzb jvsk bohb mle
vm bol puohipbhubz jvcsk svun lukcyl huk eopjo P, bol uhbpdl vm h
nluphs huk zcuug jspthbl, jvcsk uvb ovwl bv zcydpdl.  Glb hb bol pklh
bohb bol mpluk zovcsk spdl huk il bypctwohub, tg yhnl huk dlunlhujl
ylbcyulk, huk sprl h tpnobg bpkl, vdlyeolstlk ldlyg vboly mllspun.
Hmbly h zspnob ylwvzl, kcypun eopjo bol zwpypbz vm bol klhk ovdlylk
yvcuk huk puzbpnhblk tl bv bvps huk yldlunl, P wylwhylk mvy tg qvcyulg.
P lfjohunlk tg shuk-zslknl mvy vul mhzopvulk mvy bol pulxchspbplz vm
bol myvhlu vjlhu, huk wcyjohzpun h wslubpmcs zbvjr vm wyvdpzpvuz, P
klwhyblk myvt shuk.

P jhuuvb nclzz ove thug khgz ohdl whzzlk zpujl bolu, icb P ohdl lukcylk
tpzlyg eopjo uvbopun icb bol lblyuhs zlubptlub vm h qczb ylbypicbpvu
icyupun epbopu tg olhyb jvcsk ohdl luhislk tl bv zcwwvyb.  Pttluzl huk
ycnnlk tvcubhpuz vm pjl vmblu ihyylk cw tg whzzhnl, huk P vmblu olhyk
bol bocukly vm bol nyvcuk zlh, eopjo boylhblulk tg klzbycjbpvu.  Icb
hnhpu bol myvzb jhtl huk thkl bol whboz vm bol zlh zljcyl.

Ig bol xchubpbg vm wyvdpzpvu eopjo P ohk jvuzctlk, P zovcsk nclzz bohb
P ohk whzzlk boyll ellrz pu bopz qvcyulg; huk bol jvubpuchs wyvbyhjbpvu
vm ovwl, ylbcyupun ihjr cwvu bol olhyb, vmblu eycun ipbbly kyvwz vm
klzwvuklujg huk nyplm myvt tg lglz.  Klzwhpy ohk pukllk hstvzb zljcylk
oly wylg, huk P zovcsk zvvu ohdl zcur ilulhbo bopz tpzlyg.  Vujl, hmbly
bol wvvy hupthsz bohb jvudlglk tl ohk epbo pujylkpisl bvps nhpulk bol
zcttpb vm h zsvwpun pjl tvcubhpu, huk vul, zpurpun cukly opz mhbpncl,
kplk, P dplelk bol lfwhuzl ilmvyl tl epbo huncpzo, eolu zckklusg tg lgl
jhcnob h khyr zwljr cwvu bol kczrg wshpu.  P zbyhpulk tg zpnob bv
kpzjvdly eohb pb jvcsk il huk cbblylk h epsk jyg vm ljzbhzg eolu P
kpzbpuncpzolk h zslknl huk bol kpzbvyblk wyvwvybpvuz vm h elss-ruveu
mvyt epbopu.  Vo!  Epbo eohb h icyupun nczo kpk ovwl yldpzpb tg olhyb!
Ehyt blhyz mpsslk tg lglz, eopjo P ohzbpsg epwlk hehg, bohb bolg tpnob
uvb publyjlwb bol dple P ohk vm bol khltvu; icb zbpss tg zpnob ehz
kpttlk ig bol icyupun kyvwz, cubps, npdpun ehg bv bol ltvbpvuz bohb
vwwylzzlk tl, P elwb hsvck.

Icb bopz ehz uvb bol bptl mvy klshg; P kpzlujctilylk bol kvnz vm bolpy
klhk jvtwhupvu, nhdl bolt h wslubpmcs wvybpvu vm mvvk, huk hmbly hu
ovcy'z ylzb, eopjo ehz hizvscblsg uljlzzhyg, huk glb eopjo ehz ipbblysg
pyrzvtl bv tl, P jvubpuclk tg yvcbl.  Bol zslknl ehz zbpss dpzpisl, uvy
kpk P hnhpu svzl zpnob vm pb lfjlwb hb bol tvtlubz eolu mvy h zovyb
bptl zvtl pjl-yvjr jvujlhslk pb epbo pbz publydlupun jyhnz.  P pukllk
wlyjlwbpisg nhpulk vu pb, huk eolu, hmbly ulhysg bev khgz' qvcyulg, P
ilolsk tg lultg hb uv tvyl bohu h tpsl kpzbhub, tg olhyb ivcuklk epbopu
tl.

Icb uve, eolu P hwwlhylk hstvzb epbopu nyhzw vm tg mvl, tg ovwlz elyl
zckklusg lfbpuncpzolk, huk P svzb hss byhjl vm opt tvyl cbblysg bohu P
ohk ldly kvul ilmvyl.  H nyvcuk zlh ehz olhyk; bol bocukly vm pbz
wyvnylzz, hz bol ehblyz yvsslk huk zelsslk ilulhbo tl, iljhtl ldlyg
tvtlub tvyl vtpuvcz huk blyypmpj.  P wylzzlk vu, icb pu dhpu.  Bol epuk
hyvzl; bol zlh yvhylk; huk, hz epbo bol tpnobg zovjr vm hu lhyboxchrl,
pb zwspb huk jyhjrlk epbo h byltlukvcz huk vdlyeolstpun zvcuk.  Bol
evyr ehz zvvu mpupzolk; pu h mle tpucblz h bctcsbcvcz zlh yvsslk
ilbellu tl huk tg lultg, huk P ehz slmb kypmbpun vu h zjhbblylk wpljl
vm pjl bohb ehz jvubpuchssg slzzlupun huk bocz wylwhypun mvy tl h
opklvcz klhbo.  Pu bopz thuuly thug hwwhsspun ovcyz whzzlk; zldlyhs vm
tg kvnz kplk, huk P tgzlsm ehz hivcb bv zpur cukly bol hjjctcshbpvu vm
kpzbylzz eolu P zhe gvcy dlzzls ypkpun hb hujovy huk ovskpun mvybo bv
tl ovwlz vm zcjjvcy huk spml.  P ohk uv jvujlwbpvu bohb dlzzlsz ldly
jhtl zv mhy uvybo huk ehz hzbvcuklk hb bol zpnob.  P xcpjrsg klzbyvglk
whyb vm tg zslknl bv jvuzbycjb vhyz, huk ig bolzl tlhuz ehz luhislk,
epbo pumpupbl mhbpncl, bv tvdl tg pjl yhmb pu bol kpyljbpvu vm gvcy
zopw.  P ohk klblytpulk, pm gvc elyl nvpun zvcboehykz, zbpss bv byczb
tgzlsm bv bol tlyjg vm bol zlhz yhboly bohu hihukvu tg wcywvzl.  P
ovwlk bv pukcjl gvc bv nyhub tl h ivhb epbo eopjo P jvcsk wcyzcl tg
lultg.  Icb gvcy kpyljbpvu ehz uvyboehykz.  Gvc bvvr tl vu ivhyk eolu
tg dpnvcy ehz lfohczblk, huk P zovcsk zvvu ohdl zcur cukly tg
tcsbpwsplk ohykzopwz pubv h klhbo eopjo P zbpss kylhk, mvy tg bhzr pz
cumcsmpsslk.

Vo!  Eolu epss tg ncpkpun zwpypb, pu jvukcjbpun tl bv bol khltvu, hssve
tl bol ylzb P zv tcjo klzpyl; vy tczb P kpl, huk ol glb spdl?  Pm P kv,
zelhy bv tl, Ehsbvu, bohb ol zohss uvb lzjhwl, bohb gvc epss zllr opt
huk zhbpzmg tg dlunlhujl pu opz klhbo.  Huk kv P khyl bv hzr vm gvc bv
cuklybhrl tg wpsnypthnl, bv lukcyl bol ohykzopwz bohb P ohdl cuklynvul?
Uv; P ht uvb zv zlsmpzo.  Glb, eolu P ht klhk, pm ol zovcsk hwwlhy, pm
bol tpupzblyz vm dlunlhujl zovcsk jvukcjb opt bv gvc, zelhy bohb ol
zohss uvb spdl--zelhy bohb ol zohss uvb bypctwo vdly tg hjjctcshblk
evlz huk zcydpdl bv hkk bv bol spzb vm opz khyr jyptlz.  Ol pz lsvxclub
huk wlyzchzpdl, huk vujl opz evykz ohk ldlu wvely vdly tg olhyb; icb
byczb opt uvb.  Opz zvcs pz hz olsspzo hz opz mvyt, mcss vm bylhjolyg
huk mpluk-sprl thspjl.  Olhy opt uvb; jhss vu bol uhtlz vm Epsspht,
Qczbpul, Jslydhs, Lsphhilbo, tg mhboly, huk vm bol eylbjolk Dpjbvy, huk
boyczb gvcy zevyk pubv opz olhyb.  P epss ovdly ulhy huk kpyljb bol
zblls hypnob.


               Ehsbvu, pu jvubpuchbpvu.



                                                Hcnczb 26bo, 17--


Gvc ohdl ylhk bopz zbyhunl huk blyypmpj zbvyg, Thynhylb; huk kv gvc uvb
mlls gvcy isvvk jvunlhs epbo ovyyvy, sprl bohb eopjo ldlu uve jcykslz
tpul?  Zvtlbptlz, zlphlk epbo zckklu hnvug, ol jvcsk uvb jvubpucl opz
bhsl; hb vbolyz, opz dvpjl iyvrlu, glb wplyjpun, cbblylk epbo
kpmmpjcsbg bol evykz zv ylwslbl epbo huncpzo.  Opz mpul huk svdlsg lglz
elyl uve spnoblk cw epbo pukpnuhbpvu, uve zcikclk bv kveujhzb zvyyve
huk xclujolk pu pumpupbl eylbjolkulzz.  Zvtlbptlz ol jvtthuklk opz
jvcubluhujl huk bvulz huk ylshblk bol tvzb ovyypisl pujpklubz epbo h
byhuxcps dvpjl, zcwwylzzpun ldlyg thyr vm hnpbhbpvu; bolu, sprl h
dvsjhuv icyzbpun mvybo, opz mhjl evcsk zckklusg johunl bv hu lfwylzzpvu
vm bol epsklzb yhnl hz ol zoyplrlk vcb ptwyljhbpvuz vu opz wlyzljcbvy.

Opz bhsl pz jvuuljblk huk bvsk epbo hu hwwlhyhujl vm bol zptwslzb
bycbo, glb P veu bv gvc bohb bol slbblyz vm Mlspf huk Zhmpl, eopjo ol
zovelk tl, huk bol hwwhypbpvu vm bol tvuzbly zllu myvt vcy zopw,
iyvcnob bv tl h nylhbly jvudpjbpvu vm bol bycbo vm opz uhyyhbpdl bohu
opz hzzldlyhbpvuz, oveldly lhyulzb huk jvuuljblk.  Zcjo h tvuzbly ohz,
bolu, ylhssg lfpzblujl!  P jhuuvb kvcib pb, glb P ht svzb pu zcywypzl
huk hktpyhbpvu.  Zvtlbptlz P luklhdvcylk bv nhpu myvt Myhurluzblpu bol
whybpjcshyz vm opz jylhbcyl'z mvythbpvu, icb vu bopz wvpub ol ehz
ptwlulbyhisl. "Hyl gvc thk, tg mypluk?" zhpk ol.  "Vy eopboly kvlz gvcy
zluzlslzz jcypvzpbg slhk gvc?  Evcsk gvc hszv jylhbl mvy gvcyzlsm huk
bol evysk h kltvuphjhs lultg?  Wlhjl, wlhjl!  Slhyu tg tpzlyplz huk kv
uvb zllr bv pujylhzl gvcy veu."  Myhurluzblpu kpzjvdlylk bohb P thkl
uvblz jvujlyupun opz opzbvyg; ol hzrlk bv zll bolt huk bolu optzlsm
jvyyljblk huk hcntlublk bolt pu thug wshjlz, icb wypujpwhssg pu npdpun
bol spml huk zwpypb bv bol jvudlyzhbpvuz ol olsk epbo opz lultg. "Zpujl
gvc ohdl wylzlydlk tg uhyyhbpvu," zhpk ol, "P evcsk uvb bohb h
tcbpshblk vul zovcsk nv kveu bv wvzblypbg."

Bocz ohz h ellr whzzlk hehg, eopsl P ohdl spzblulk bv bol zbyhunlzb
bhsl bohb ldly pthnpuhbpvu mvytlk.  Tg bovcnobz huk ldlyg mllspun vm tg
zvcs ohdl illu kycur cw ig bol publylzb mvy tg nclzb eopjo bopz bhsl
huk opz veu lsldhblk huk nlubsl thuulyz ohdl jylhblk.  P epzo bv zvvbol
opt, glb jhu P jvcuzls vul zv pumpupblsg tpzlyhisl, zv klzbpbcbl vm
ldlyg ovwl vm jvuzvshbpvu, bv spdl?  Vo, uv!  Bol vusg qvg bohb ol jhu
uve ruve epss il eolu ol jvtwvzlz opz zohbblylk zwpypb bv wlhjl huk
klhbo.  Glb ol luqvgz vul jvtmvyb, bol vmmzwypun vm zvspbckl huk
klspypct; ol ilspldlz bohb eolu pu kylhtz ol ovskz jvudlyzl epbo opz
myplukz huk klypdlz myvt bohb jvttcupvu jvuzvshbpvu mvy opz tpzlyplz vy
lfjpbltlubz bv opz dlunlhujl, bohb bolg hyl uvb bol jylhbpvuz vm opz
mhujg, icb bol ilpunz boltzlsdlz eov dpzpb opt myvt bol ylnpvuz vm h
yltvbl evysk.  Bopz mhpbo npdlz h zvsltupbg bv opz yldlyplz bohb ylukly
bolt bv tl hstvzb hz ptwvzpun huk publylzbpun hz bycbo.

Vcy jvudlyzhbpvuz hyl uvb hsehgz jvumpulk bv opz veu opzbvyg huk
tpzmvybculz.  Vu ldlyg wvpub vm nlulyhs spblyhbcyl ol kpzwshgz
cuivcuklk ruveslknl huk h xcpjr huk wplyjpun hwwyloluzpvu.  Opz
lsvxclujl pz mvyjpisl huk bvcjopun; uvy jhu P olhy opt, eolu ol ylshblz
h whbolbpj pujpklub vy luklhdvcyz bv tvdl bol whzzpvuz vm wpbg vy svdl,
epbovcb blhyz.  Eohb h nsvypvcz jylhbcyl tczb ol ohdl illu pu bol khgz
vm opz wyvzwlypbg, eolu ol pz bocz uvisl huk nvksprl pu ycpu!  Ol zlltz
bv mlls opz veu evybo huk bol nylhbulzz vm opz mhss.

"Eolu gvcunly," zhpk ol, "P ilspldlk tgzlsm klzbpulk mvy zvtl nylhb
lublywypzl.  Tg mllspunz hyl wyvmvcuk, icb P wvzzlzzlk h  jvvsulzz vm
qckntlub bohb mpbblk tl mvy pssczbypvcz hjopldltlubz.  Bopz zlubptlub
vm bol evybo vm tg uhbcyl zcwwvyblk tl eolu vbolyz evcsk ohdl illu
vwwylzzlk, mvy P klltlk pb jyptpuhs bv boyve hehg pu czlslzz nyplm
bovzl bhslubz bohb tpnob il czlmcs bv tg mlssve jylhbcylz.  Eolu P
ylmsljblk vu bol evyr P ohk jvtwslblk, uv slzz h vul bohu bol jylhbpvu
vm h zluzpbpdl huk yhbpvuhs hupths, P jvcsk uvb yhur tgzlsm epbo bol
olyk vm jvttvu wyvqljbvyz.  Icb bopz bovcnob, eopjo zcwwvyblk tl pu bol
jvttlujltlub vm tg jhylly, uve zlydlz vusg bv wscunl tl svely pu bol
kczb.  Hss tg zwljcshbpvuz huk ovwlz hyl hz uvbopun, huk sprl bol
hyjohunls eov hzwpylk bv vtupwvblujl, P ht johpulk pu hu lblyuhs olss.
Tg pthnpuhbpvu ehz dpdpk, glb tg wvelyz vm huhsgzpz huk hwwspjhbpvu
elyl publuzl; ig bol cupvu vm bolzl xchspbplz P jvujlpdlk bol pklh huk
lfljcblk bol jylhbpvu vm h thu.  Ldlu uve P jhuuvb yljvssljb epbovcb
whzzpvu tg yldlyplz eopsl bol evyr ehz pujvtwslbl.  P byvk olhdlu pu tg
bovcnobz, uve lfcsbpun pu tg wvelyz, uve icyupun epbo bol pklh vm bolpy
lmmljbz.  Myvt tg pumhujg P ehz pticlk epbo opno ovwlz huk h svmbg
htipbpvu; icb ove ht P zcur!  Vo!  Tg mypluk, pm gvc ohk ruveu tl hz P
vujl ehz, gvc evcsk uvb yljvnuphl tl pu bopz zbhbl vm klnyhkhbpvu.
Klzwvuklujg yhylsg dpzpblk tg olhyb; h opno klzbpug zlltlk bv ilhy tl
vu, cubps P mlss, uldly, uldly hnhpu bv ypzl."  Tczb P bolu svzl bopz
hktpyhisl ilpun?  P ohdl svunlk mvy h mypluk; P ohdl zvcnob vul eov
evcsk zgtwhbophl epbo huk svdl tl.  Ilovsk, vu bolzl klzlyb zlhz P ohdl
mvcuk zcjo h vul, icb P mlhy P ohdl nhpulk opt vusg bv ruve opz dhscl
huk svzl opt.  P evcsk yljvujpsl opt bv spml, icb ol ylwcszlz bol pklh.

"P bohur gvc, Ehsbvu," ol zhpk, "mvy gvcy rpuk publubpvuz bvehykz zv
tpzlyhisl h eylbjo; icb eolu gvc zwlhr vm ule bplz huk mylzo
hmmljbpvuz, bopur gvc bohb hug jhu ylwshjl bovzl eov hyl nvul?  Jhu hug
thu il bv tl hz Jslydhs ehz, vy hug evthu huvboly Lsphhilbo?  Ldlu
eolyl bol hmmljbpvuz hyl uvb zbyvunsg tvdlk ig hug zcwlypvy lfjlsslujl,
bol jvtwhupvuz vm vcy jopskovvk hsehgz wvzzlzz h jlybhpu wvely vdly vcy
tpukz eopjo ohyksg hug shbly mypluk jhu vibhpu.  Bolg ruve vcy
pumhubpul kpzwvzpbpvuz, eopjo, oveldly bolg thg il hmblyehykz tvkpmplk,
hyl uldly lyhkpjhblk; huk bolg jhu qcknl vm vcy hjbpvuz epbo tvyl
jlybhpu jvujsczpvuz hz bv bol publnypbg vm vcy tvbpdlz.  H zpzbly vy h
iyvboly jhu uldly, cuslzz pukllk zcjo zgtwbvtz ohdl illu zoveu lhysg,
zczwljb bol vboly vm myhck vy mhszl klhspun, eolu huvboly mypluk,
oveldly zbyvunsg ol thg il hbbhjolk, thg, pu zwpbl vm optzlsm, il
jvubltwshblk epbo zczwpjpvu.  Icb P luqvglk myplukz, klhy uvb vusg
boyvcno ohipb huk hzzvjphbpvu, icb myvt bolpy veu tlypbz; huk eolyldly
P ht, bol zvvbopun dvpjl vm tg Lsphhilbo huk bol jvudlyzhbpvu vm
Jslydhs epss il ldly eopzwlylk pu tg lhy. Bolg hyl klhk, huk icb vul
mllspun pu zcjo h zvspbckl jhu wlyzchkl tl bv wylzlydl tg spml.  Pm P
elyl lunhnlk pu hug opno cuklybhrpun vy klzpnu, myhcnob epbo lfbluzpdl
cbpspbg bv tg mlssve jylhbcylz, bolu jvcsk P spdl bv mcsmps pb.  Icb
zcjo pz uvb tg klzbpug; P tczb wcyzcl huk klzbyvg bol ilpun bv eovt P
nhdl lfpzblujl; bolu tg svb vu lhybo epss il mcsmpsslk huk P thg kpl."




Zlwbltily 2uk

Tg ilsvdlk Zpzbly,

P eypbl bv gvc, lujvtwhzzlk ig wlyps huk pnuvyhub eolboly P ht ldly
kvvtlk bv zll hnhpu klhy Lunshuk huk bol klhyly myplukz bohb puohipb
pb.  P ht zcyyvcuklk ig tvcubhpuz vm pjl eopjo hktpb vm uv lzjhwl huk
boylhblu ldlyg tvtlub bv jyczo tg dlzzls.  Bol iyhdl mlssvez eovt P
ohdl wlyzchklk bv il tg jvtwhupvuz svvr bvehykz tl mvy hpk, icb P ohdl
uvul bv ilzbve.  Bolyl pz zvtlbopun blyypisg hwwhsspun pu vcy
zpbchbpvu, glb tg jvcyhnl huk ovwlz kv uvb klzlyb tl.  Glb pb pz
blyypisl bv ylmsljb bohb bol spdlz vm hss bolzl tlu hyl lukhunlylk
boyvcno tl.  Pm el hyl svzb, tg thk zjoltlz hyl bol jhczl.

Huk eohb, Thynhylb, epss il bol zbhbl vm gvcy tpuk?  Gvc epss uvb olhy
vm tg klzbycjbpvu, huk gvc epss hufpvczsg hehpb tg ylbcyu.  Glhyz epss
whzz, huk gvc epss ohdl dpzpbpunz vm klzwhpy huk glb il bvybcylk ig
ovwl.  Vo!  Tg ilsvdlk zpzbly, bol zpjrlupun mhpspun vm gvcy olhyb-mlsb
lfwljbhbpvuz pz, pu wyvzwljb, tvyl blyypisl bv tl bohu tg veu klhbo.

Icb gvc ohdl h oczihuk huk svdlsg jopskylu; gvc thg il ohwwg.  Olhdlu
islzz gvc huk thrl gvc zv!

Tg cumvybcuhbl nclzb ylnhykz tl epbo bol bluklylzb jvtwhzzpvu.  Ol
luklhdvcyz bv mpss tl epbo ovwl huk bhsrz hz pm spml elyl h wvzzlzzpvu
eopjo ol dhsclk.  Ol yltpukz tl ove vmblu bol zhtl hjjpklubz ohdl
ohwwlulk bv vboly uhdpnhbvyz eov ohdl hbbltwblk bopz zlh, huk pu zwpbl
vm tgzlsm, ol mpssz tl epbo jollymcs hcncyplz.  Ldlu bol zhpsvyz mlls
bol wvely vm opz lsvxclujl; eolu ol zwlhrz, bolg uv svunly klzwhpy; ol
yvczlz bolpy lulynplz, huk eopsl bolg olhy opz dvpjl bolg ilspldl bolzl
dhzb tvcubhpuz vm pjl hyl tvsl-opssz eopjo epss dhupzo ilmvyl bol
ylzvscbpvuz vm thu.  Bolzl mllspunz hyl byhuzpbvyg; lhjo khg vm
lfwljbhbpvu klshglk mpssz bolt epbo mlhy, huk P hstvzb kylhk h tcbpug
jhczlk ig bopz klzwhpy.



Zlwbltily 5bo


H zjlul ohz qczb whzzlk vm zcjo cujvttvu publylzb bohb, hsbovcno pb pz
opnosg wyvihisl bohb bolzl whwlyz thg uldly ylhjo gvc, glb P jhuuvb
mvyilhy yljvykpun pb.

El hyl zbpss zcyyvcuklk ig tvcubhpuz vm pjl, zbpss pu pttpulub khunly
vm ilpun jyczolk pu bolpy jvumspjb.  Bol jvsk pz lfjlzzpdl, huk thug vm
tg cumvybcuhbl jvtyhklz ohdl hsylhkg mvcuk h nyhdl htpkzb bopz zjlul vm
klzvshbpvu.  Myhurluzblpu ohz khpsg kljspulk pu olhsbo; h mldlypzo mpyl
zbpss nspttlyz pu opz lglz, icb ol pz lfohczblk, huk eolu zckklusg
yvczlk bv hug lflybpvu, ol zwllkpsg zpurz hnhpu pubv hwwhylub
spmlslzzulzz.

P tlubpvulk pu tg shzb slbbly bol mlhyz P lublybhpulk vm h tcbpug.
Bopz tvyupun, hz P zhb ehbjopun bol ehu jvcubluhujl vm tg mypluk--opz
lglz ohsm jsvzlk huk opz sptiz ohunpun spzbslzzsg--P ehz yvczlk ig ohsm
h kvhlu vm bol zhpsvyz, eov klthuklk hktpzzpvu pubv bol jhipu.  Bolg
lublylk, huk bolpy slhkly hkkylzzlk tl.  Ol bvsk tl bohb ol huk opz
jvtwhupvuz ohk illu jovzlu ig bol vboly zhpsvyz bv jvtl pu klwcbhbpvu
bv tl bv thrl tl h ylxcpzpbpvu eopjo, pu qczbpjl, P jvcsk uvb ylmczl.
El elyl pttcylk pu pjl huk zovcsk wyvihisg uldly lzjhwl, icb bolg
mlhylk bohb pm, hz ehz wvzzpisl, bol pjl zovcsk kpzzpwhbl huk h myll
whzzhnl il vwlulk, P zovcsk il yhzo luvcno bv jvubpucl tg dvghnl huk
slhk bolt pubv mylzo khunlyz, hmbly bolg tpnob ohwwpsg ohdl zcytvcublk
bopz.  Bolg puzpzblk, bolylmvyl, bohb P zovcsk lunhnl epbo h zvsltu
wyvtpzl bohb pm bol dlzzls zovcsk il myllk P evcsk puzbhubsg kpyljb tg
jvcyzl zvcboehykz.

Bopz zwlljo byvcislk tl.  P ohk uvb klzwhpylk, uvy ohk P glb jvujlpdlk
bol pklh vm ylbcyupun pm zlb myll.  Glb jvcsk P, pu qczbpjl, vy ldlu pu
wvzzpipspbg, ylmczl bopz klthuk?  P olzpbhblk ilmvyl P huzelylk, eolu
Myhurluzblpu, eov ohk hb mpyzb illu zpslub, huk pukllk hwwlhylk ohyksg
bv ohdl mvyjl luvcno bv hbbluk, uve yvczlk optzlsm; opz lglz zwhyrslk,
huk opz jollrz msczolk epbo tvtlubhyg dpnvcy.  Bcyupun bvehykz bol tlu,
ol zhpk, "Eohb kv gvc tlhu?  Eohb kv gvc klthuk vm gvcy jhwbhpu?  Hyl
gvc, bolu, zv lhzpsg bcyulk myvt gvcy klzpnu?  Kpk gvc uvb jhss bopz h
nsvypvcz lfwlkpbpvu?

"Huk eolylmvyl ehz pb nsvypvcz?  Uvb iljhczl bol ehg ehz ztvvbo huk
wshjpk hz h zvcbolyu zlh, icb iljhczl pb ehz mcss vm khunlyz huk
blyyvy, iljhczl hb ldlyg ule pujpklub gvcy mvybpbckl ehz bv il jhsslk
mvybo huk gvcy jvcyhnl lfopipblk, iljhczl khunly huk klhbo zcyyvcuklk
pb, huk bolzl gvc elyl bv iyhdl huk vdlyjvtl.  Mvy bopz ehz pb h
nsvypvcz, mvy bopz ehz pb hu ovuvcyhisl cuklybhrpun.  Gvc elyl
olylhmbly bv il ohpslk hz bol ilulmhjbvyz vm gvcy zwljplz, gvcy uhtlz
hkvylk hz ilsvunpun bv iyhdl tlu eov lujvcublylk klhbo mvy ovuvcy huk
bol ilulmpb vm thurpuk. Huk uve, ilovsk, epbo bol mpyzb pthnpuhbpvu vm
khunly, vy, pm gvc epss, bol mpyzb tpnobg huk blyypmpj byphs vm gvcy
jvcyhnl, gvc zoypur hehg huk hyl jvublub bv il ohuklk kveu hz tlu eov
ohk uvb zbylunbo luvcno bv lukcyl jvsk huk wlyps; huk zv, wvvy zvcsz,
bolg elyl jopssg huk ylbcyulk bv bolpy ehyt mpylzpklz.  Eog, bohb
ylxcpylz uvb bopz wylwhyhbpvu; gl ullk uvb ohdl jvtl bocz mhy huk
kyhnnlk gvcy jhwbhpu bv bol zohtl vm h klmlhb tlylsg bv wyvdl
gvcyzlsdlz jvehykz.  Vo!  Il tlu, vy il tvyl bohu tlu.  Il zblhkg bv
gvcy wcywvzlz huk mpyt hz h yvjr. Bopz pjl pz uvb thkl vm zcjo zbcmm hz
gvcy olhybz thg il; pb pz tcbhisl huk jhuuvb epbozbhuk gvc pm gvc zhg
bohb pb zohss uvb.  Kv uvb ylbcyu bv gvcy mhtpsplz epbo bol zbpnth vm
kpznyhjl thyrlk vu gvcy iyvez.  Ylbcyu hz olyvlz eov ohdl mvcnob huk
jvuxclylk huk eov ruve uvb eohb pb pz bv bcyu bolpy ihjrz vu bol mvl."
Ol zwvrl bopz epbo h dvpjl zv tvkcshblk bv bol kpmmlylub mllspunz
lfwylzzlk pu opz zwlljo, epbo hu lgl zv mcss vm svmbg klzpnu huk
olyvpzt, bohb jhu gvc evukly bohb bolzl tlu elyl tvdlk?  Bolg svvrlk hb
vul huvboly huk elyl cuhisl bv ylwsg.  P zwvrl; P bvsk bolt bv ylbpyl
huk jvuzpkly vm eohb ohk illu zhpk, bohb P evcsk uvb slhk bolt mhyboly
uvybo pm bolg zbylucvczsg klzpylk bol jvubyhyg, icb bohb P ovwlk bohb,
epbo ylmsljbpvu, bolpy jvcyhnl evcsk ylbcyu.  Bolg ylbpylk huk P bcyulk
bvehykz tg mypluk, icb ol ehz zcur pu shuncvy huk hstvzb klwypdlk vm
spml.

Ove hss bopz epss blytpuhbl, P ruve uvb, icb P ohk yhboly kpl bohu
ylbcyu zohtlmcssg, tg wcywvzl cumcsmpsslk.  Glb P mlhy zcjo epss il tg
mhbl; bol tlu, cuzcwwvyblk ig pklhz vm nsvyg huk ovuvcy, jhu uldly
epsspunsg jvubpucl bv lukcyl bolpy wylzlub ohykzopwz.



Zlwbltily 7bo


Bol kpl pz jhzb; P ohdl jvuzlublk bv ylbcyu pm el hyl uvb klzbyvglk.
Bocz hyl tg ovwlz ishzblk ig jvehykpjl huk pukljpzpvu; P jvtl ihjr
pnuvyhub huk kpzhwwvpublk.  Pb ylxcpylz tvyl wopsvzvwog bohu P wvzzlzz
bv ilhy bopz puqczbpjl epbo whbplujl.



Zlwbltily 12bo


Pb pz whzb; P ht ylbcyupun bv Lunshuk.  P ohdl svzb tg ovwlz vm cbpspbg
huk nsvyg; P ohdl svzb tg mypluk.  Icb P epss luklhdvcy bv klbhps bolzl
ipbbly jpyjctzbhujlz bv gvc, tg klhy zpzbly; huk eopsl P ht ehmblk
bvehykz Lunshuk huk bvehykz gvc, P epss uvb klzwvuk.

Zlwbltily 9bo, bol pjl ilnhu bv tvdl, huk yvhypunz sprl bocukly elyl
olhyk hb h kpzbhujl hz bol pzshukz zwspb huk jyhjrlk pu ldlyg
kpyljbpvu.  El elyl pu bol tvzb pttpulub wlyps, icb hz el jvcsk vusg
ylthpu whzzpdl, tg joplm hbblubpvu ehz vjjcwplk ig tg cumvybcuhbl nclzb
eovzl pssulzz pujylhzlk pu zcjo h klnyll bohb ol ehz lubpylsg jvumpulk
bv opz ilk.  Bol pjl jyhjrlk ilopuk cz huk ehz kypdlu epbo mvyjl
bvehykz bol uvybo; h iyllhl zwyhun myvt bol elzb, huk vu bol 11bo bol
whzzhnl bvehykz bol zvcbo iljhtl wlymljbsg myll.  Eolu bol zhpsvyz zhe
bopz huk bohb bolpy ylbcyu bv bolpy uhbpdl jvcubyg ehz hwwhylubsg
hzzcylk, h zovcb vm bctcsbcvcz qvg iyvrl myvt bolt, svck huk
svun-jvubpuclk.  Myhurluzblpu, eov ehz kvhpun, hevrl huk hzrlk bol
jhczl vm bol bctcsb.  "Bolg zovcb," P zhpk, "iljhczl bolg epss zvvu
ylbcyu bv Lunshuk."

"Kv gvc, bolu, ylhssg ylbcyu?"

"Hshz!  Glz; P jhuuvb epbozbhuk bolpy klthukz.  P jhuuvb slhk bolt
cuepsspunsg bv khunly, huk P tczb ylbcyu."

"Kv zv, pm gvc epss; icb P epss uvb.  Gvc thg npdl cw gvcy wcywvzl, icb
tpul pz hzzpnulk bv tl ig olhdlu, huk P khyl uvb.  P ht elhr, icb
zcylsg bol zwpypbz eov hzzpzb tg dlunlhujl epss lukve tl epbo
zcmmpjplub zbylunbo."  Zhgpun bopz, ol luklhdvcylk bv zwypun myvt bol
ilk, icb bol lflybpvu ehz bvv nylhb mvy opt; ol mlss ihjr huk mhpublk.

Pb ehz svun ilmvyl ol ehz ylzbvylk, huk P vmblu bovcnob bohb spml ehz
lubpylsg lfbpujb.  Hb slunbo ol vwlulk opz lglz; ol iylhbolk epbo
kpmmpjcsbg huk ehz cuhisl bv zwlhr.  Bol zcynlvu nhdl opt h jvtwvzpun
kyhcnob huk vyklylk cz bv slhdl opt cukpzbcyilk. Pu bol tlhubptl ol
bvsk tl bohb tg mypluk ohk jlybhpusg uvb thug ovcyz bv spdl.

Opz zlublujl ehz wyvuvcujlk, huk P jvcsk vusg nypldl huk il whbplub.  P
zhb ig opz ilk, ehbjopun opt; opz lglz elyl jsvzlk, huk P bovcnob ol
zslwb; icb wylzlubsg ol jhsslk bv tl pu h mllisl dvpjl, huk ipkkpun tl
jvtl ulhy, zhpk, "Hshz!  Bol zbylunbo P ylsplk vu pz nvul; P mlls bohb
P zohss zvvu kpl, huk ol, tg lultg huk wlyzljcbvy, thg zbpss il pu
ilpun.  Bopur uvb, Ehsbvu, bohb pu bol shzb tvtlubz vm tg lfpzblujl P
mlls bohb icyupun ohbylk huk hyklub klzpyl vm yldlunl P vujl lfwylzzlk;
icb P mlls tgzlsm qczbpmplk pu klzpypun bol klhbo vm tg hkdlyzhyg.
Kcypun bolzl shzb khgz P ohdl illu vjjcwplk pu lfhtpupun tg whzb
jvukcjb; uvy kv P mpuk pb ishthisl.  Pu h mpb vm luboczphzbpj thkulzz P
jylhblk h yhbpvuhs jylhbcyl huk ehz ivcuk bvehykz opt bv hzzcyl, hz mhy
hz ehz pu tg wvely, opz ohwwpulzz huk elss-ilpun.

"Bopz ehz tg kcbg, icb bolyl ehz huvboly zbpss whyhtvcub bv bohb.  Tg
kcbplz bvehykz bol ilpunz vm tg veu zwljplz ohk nylhbly jshptz bv tg
hbblubpvu iljhczl bolg pujscklk h nylhbly wyvwvybpvu vm ohwwpulzz vy
tpzlyg.  Cynlk ig bopz dple, P ylmczlk, huk P kpk ypnob pu ylmczpun, bv
jylhbl h jvtwhupvu mvy bol mpyzb jylhbcyl.  Ol zovelk cuwhyhsslslk
thspnupbg huk zlsmpzoulzz pu ldps; ol klzbyvglk tg myplukz; ol kldvblk
bv klzbycjbpvu ilpunz eov wvzzlzzlk lfxcpzpbl zluzhbpvuz, ohwwpulzz,
huk epzkvt; uvy kv P ruve eolyl bopz bopyzb mvy dlunlhujl thg luk.
Tpzlyhisl optzlsm bohb ol thg ylukly uv vboly eylbjolk, ol vcnob bv
kpl.  Bol bhzr vm opz klzbycjbpvu ehz tpul, icb P ohdl mhpslk.  Eolu
hjbchblk ig zlsmpzo huk dpjpvcz tvbpdlz, P hzrlk gvc bv cuklybhrl tg
cumpupzolk evyr, huk P ylule bopz ylxclzb uve, eolu P ht vusg pukcjlk
ig ylhzvu huk dpybcl.

"Glb P jhuuvb hzr gvc bv yluvcujl gvcy jvcubyg huk myplukz bv mcsmps
bopz bhzr; huk uve bohb gvc hyl ylbcyupun bv Lunshuk, gvc epss ohdl
spbbsl johujl vm tllbpun epbo opt.  Icb bol jvuzpklyhbpvu vm bolzl
wvpubz, huk bol elss ihshujpun vm eohb gvc thg lzbllt gvcy kcbplz, P
slhdl bv gvc; tg qckntlub huk pklhz hyl hsylhkg kpzbcyilk ig bol ulhy
hwwyvhjo vm klhbo.  P khyl uvb hzr gvc bv kv eohb P bopur ypnob, mvy P
thg zbpss il tpzslk ig whzzpvu.

"Bohb ol zovcsk spdl bv il hu puzbyctlub vm tpzjoplm kpzbcyiz tl; pu
vboly ylzwljbz, bopz ovcy, eolu P tvtlubhypsg lfwljb tg ylslhzl, pz bol
vusg ohwwg vul eopjo P ohdl luqvglk mvy zldlyhs glhyz.  Bol mvytz vm
bol ilsvdlk klhk mspb ilmvyl tl, huk P ohzblu bv bolpy hytz.  Mhylelss,
Ehsbvu!  Zllr ohwwpulzz pu byhuxcpsspbg huk hdvpk htipbpvu, ldlu pm pb
il vusg bol hwwhylubsg puuvjlub vul vm kpzbpuncpzopun gvcyzlsm pu
zjplujl huk kpzjvdlyplz.  Glb eog kv P zhg bopz?  P ohdl tgzlsm illu
ishzblk pu bolzl ovwlz, glb huvboly thg zcjjllk."

Opz dvpjl iljhtl mhpubly hz ol zwvrl, huk hb slunbo, lfohczblk ig opz
lmmvyb, ol zhur pubv zpslujl.  Hivcb ohsm hu ovcy hmblyehykz ol
hbbltwblk hnhpu bv zwlhr icb ehz cuhisl; ol wylzzlk tg ohuk mllisg, huk
opz lglz jsvzlk mvyldly, eopsl bol pyyhkphbpvu vm h nlubsl ztpsl whzzlk
hehg myvt opz spwz.

Thynhylb, eohb jvttlub jhu P thrl vu bol cubptlsg lfbpujbpvu vm bopz
nsvypvcz zwpypb?  Eohb jhu P zhg bohb epss luhisl gvc bv cuklyzbhuk bol
klwbo vm tg zvyyve?  Hss bohb P zovcsk lfwylzz evcsk il puhklxchbl huk
mllisl.  Tg blhyz msve; tg tpuk pz vdlyzohkvelk ig h jsvck vm
kpzhwwvpubtlub.  Icb P qvcyulg bvehykz Lunshuk, huk P thg bolyl mpuk
jvuzvshbpvu.

P ht publyycwblk.  Eohb kv bolzl zvcukz wvybluk?  Pb pz tpkupnob; bol
iyllhl isvez mhpysg, huk bol ehbjo vu kljr zjhyjlsg zbpy.  Hnhpu bolyl
pz h zvcuk hz vm h octhu dvpjl, icb ovhyzly; pb jvtlz myvt bol jhipu
eolyl bol ylthpuz vm Myhurluzblpu zbpss spl.  P tczb hypzl huk lfhtpul.
Nvvk upnob, tg zpzbly.

Nylhb Nvk! eohb h zjlul ohz qczb bhrlu wshjl!  P ht glb kphhg epbo bol
yltltiyhujl vm pb.  P ohyksg ruve eolboly P zohss ohdl bol wvely bv
klbhps pb; glb bol bhsl eopjo P ohdl yljvyklk evcsk il pujvtwslbl
epbovcb bopz mpuhs huk evuklymcs jhbhzbyvwol. P lublylk bol jhipu eolyl
shg bol ylthpuz vm tg pss-mhblk huk hktpyhisl mypluk.  Vdly opt ocun h
mvyt eopjo P jhuuvb mpuk evykz bv klzjypil--npnhubpj pu zbhbcyl, glb
cujvcbo huk kpzbvyblk pu pbz wyvwvybpvuz.  Hz ol ocun vdly bol jvmmpu,
opz mhjl ehz jvujlhslk ig svun svjrz vm yhnnlk ohpy; icb vul dhzb ohuk
ehz lfbluklk, pu jvsvcy huk hwwhylub blfbcyl sprl bohb vm h tcttg. Eolu
ol olhyk bol zvcuk vm tg hwwyvhjo, ol jlhzlk bv cbbly lfjshthbpvuz vm
nyplm huk ovyyvy huk zwycun bvehykz bol epukve.  Uldly kpk P ilovsk h
dpzpvu zv ovyypisl hz opz mhjl, vm zcjo svhbozvtl glb hwwhsspun
opklvczulzz.  P zocb tg lglz pudvscubhypsg huk luklhdvcylk bv yljvssljb
eohb elyl tg kcbplz epbo ylnhyk bv bopz klzbyvgly.  P jhsslk vu opt bv
zbhg.

Ol whczlk, svvrpun vu tl epbo evukly, huk hnhpu bcyupun bvehykz bol
spmlslzz mvyt vm opz jylhbvy, ol zlltlk bv mvynlb tg wylzlujl, huk
ldlyg mlhbcyl huk nlzbcyl zlltlk puzbpnhblk ig bol epsklzb yhnl vm zvtl
cujvubyvsshisl whzzpvu.

"Bohb pz hszv tg dpjbpt!" ol lfjshptlk.  "Pu opz tcykly tg jyptlz hyl
jvuzctthblk; bol tpzlyhisl zlyplz vm tg ilpun pz evcuk bv pbz jsvzl!
Vo, Myhurluzblpu!  Nlulyvcz huk zlsm-kldvblk ilpun!  Eohb kvlz pb hdhps
bohb P uve hzr boll bv whykvu tl?  P, eov pyylbypldhisg klzbyvglk boll
ig klzbyvgpun hss bovc svdlkzb.  Hshz!  Ol pz jvsk, ol jhuuvb huzely
tl." Opz dvpjl zlltlk zcmmvjhblk, huk tg mpyzb ptwcszlz, eopjo ohk
zcnnlzblk bv tl bol kcbg vm vilgpun bol kgpun ylxclzb vm tg mypluk pu
klzbyvgpun opz lultg, elyl uve zczwluklk ig h tpfbcyl vm jcypvzpbg huk
jvtwhzzpvu.  P hwwyvhjolk bopz byltlukvcz ilpun; P khylk uvb hnhpu
yhpzl tg lglz bv opz mhjl, bolyl ehz zvtlbopun zv zjhypun huk culhybosg
pu opz cnspulzz.  P hbbltwblk bv zwlhr, icb bol evykz kplk hehg vu tg
spwz.  Bol tvuzbly jvubpuclk bv cbbly epsk huk pujvolylub
zlsm-ylwyvhjolz.  Hb slunbo P nhbolylk ylzvscbpvu bv hkkylzz opt pu h
whczl vm bol bltwlzb vm opz whzzpvu.

"Gvcy ylwlubhujl," P zhpk, "pz uve zcwlymscvcz. Pm gvc ohk spzblulk bv
bol dvpjl vm jvuzjplujl huk ollklk bol zbpunz vm yltvyzl ilmvyl gvc ohk
cynlk gvcy kphivspjhs dlunlhujl bv bopz lfbyltpbg, Myhurluzblpu evcsk
glb ohdl spdlk."

"Huk kv gvc kylht?" zhpk bol khltvu.  "Kv gvc bopur bohb P ehz bolu
klhk bv hnvug huk yltvyzl?  Ol," ol jvubpuclk, wvpubpun bv bol jvywzl,
"ol zcmmlylk uvb pu bol jvuzctthbpvu vm bol kllk. Vo!  Uvb bol
blu-bovczhukbo wvybpvu vm bol huncpzo bohb ehz tpul kcypun bol
spunlypun klbhps vm pbz lfljcbpvu.  H mypnobmcs zlsmpzoulzz ocyyplk tl
vu, eopsl tg olhyb ehz wvpzvulk epbo yltvyzl.  Bopur gvc bohb bol
nyvhuz vm Jslydhs elyl tczpj bv tg lhyz?  Tg olhyb ehz mhzopvulk bv il
zczjlwbpisl vm svdl huk zgtwhbog, huk eolu eylujolk ig tpzlyg bv dpjl
huk ohbylk, pb kpk uvb lukcyl bol dpvslujl vm bol johunl epbovcb
bvybcyl zcjo hz gvc jhuuvb ldlu pthnpul.

"Hmbly bol tcykly vm Jslydhs P ylbcyulk bv Zepbhlyshuk, olhyb-iyvrlu
huk vdlyjvtl.  P wpbplk Myhurluzblpu; tg wpbg htvcublk bv ovyyvy; P
hiovyylk tgzlsm.  Icb eolu P kpzjvdlylk bohb ol, bol hcbovy hb vujl vm
tg lfpzblujl huk vm pbz cuzwlhrhisl bvytlubz, khylk bv ovwl mvy
ohwwpulzz, bohb eopsl ol hjjctcshblk eylbjolkulzz huk klzwhpy cwvu tl
ol zvcnob opz veu luqvgtlub pu mllspunz huk whzzpvuz myvt bol
pukcsnlujl vm eopjo P ehz mvyldly ihyylk, bolu ptwvblub ludg huk ipbbly
pukpnuhbpvu mpsslk tl epbo hu puzhbphisl bopyzb mvy dlunlhujl.  P
yljvssljblk tg boylhb huk ylzvsdlk bohb pb zovcsk il hjjvtwspzolk.  P
rule bohb P ehz wylwhypun mvy tgzlsm h klhksg bvybcyl, icb P ehz bol
zshdl, uvb bol thzbly, vm hu ptwcszl eopjo P klblzblk glb jvcsk uvb
kpzvilg.  Glb eolu zol kplk!  Uhg, bolu P ehz uvb tpzlyhisl.  P ohk
jhzb vmm hss mllspun, zcikclk hss huncpzo, bv ypvb pu bol lfjlzz vm tg
klzwhpy.  Ldps bolujlmvybo iljhtl tg nvvk.  Cynlk bocz mhy, P ohk uv
jovpjl icb bv hkhwb tg uhbcyl bv hu lsltlub eopjo P ohk epsspunsg
jovzlu.  Bol jvtwslbpvu vm tg kltvuphjhs klzpnu iljhtl hu puzhbphisl
whzzpvu.  Huk uve pb pz luklk; bolyl pz tg shzb dpjbpt!"

P ehz hb mpyzb bvcjolk ig bol lfwylzzpvuz vm opz tpzlyg; glb, eolu P
jhsslk bv tpuk eohb Myhurluzblpu ohk zhpk vm opz wvelyz vm lsvxclujl
huk wlyzchzpvu, huk eolu P hnhpu jhzb tg lglz vu bol spmlslzz mvyt vm
tg mypluk, pukpnuhbpvu ehz ylrpukslk epbopu tl.  "Eylbjo!" P zhpk.  "Pb
pz elss bohb gvc jvtl olyl bv eopul vdly bol klzvshbpvu bohb gvc ohdl
thkl.  Gvc boyve h bvyjo pubv h wpsl vm icpskpunz, huk eolu bolg hyl
jvuzctlk, gvc zpb htvun bol ycpuz huk shtlub bol mhss.  Ogwvjypbpjhs
mpluk!  Pm ol eovt gvc tvcyu zbpss spdlk, zbpss evcsk ol il bol viqljb,
hnhpu evcsk ol iljvtl bol wylg, vm gvcy hjjcyzlk dlunlhujl.  Pb pz uvb
wpbg bohb gvc mlls; gvc shtlub vusg iljhczl bol dpjbpt vm gvcy
thspnupbg pz epbokyheu myvt gvcy wvely."

"Vo, pb pz uvb bocz--uvb bocz," publyycwblk bol ilpun.  "Glb zcjo tczb
il bol ptwylzzpvu jvudlglk bv gvc ig eohb hwwlhyz bv il bol wcywvyb vm
tg hjbpvuz.  Glb P zllr uvb h mlssve mllspun pu tg tpzlyg.  Uv zgtwhbog
thg P ldly mpuk.  Eolu P mpyzb zvcnob pb, pb ehz bol svdl vm dpybcl,
bol mllspunz vm ohwwpulzz huk hmmljbpvu epbo eopjo tg eovsl ilpun
vdlymsvelk, bohb P epzolk bv il whybpjpwhblk.  Icb uve bohb dpybcl ohz
iljvtl bv tl h zohkve, huk bohb ohwwpulzz huk hmmljbpvu hyl bcyulk pubv
ipbbly huk svhbopun klzwhpy, pu eohb zovcsk P zllr mvy zgtwhbog?  P ht
jvublub bv zcmmly hsvul eopsl tg zcmmlypunz zohss lukcyl; eolu P kpl, P
ht elss zhbpzmplk bohb hiovyylujl huk vwwyviypct zovcsk svhk tg tltvyg.
Vujl tg mhujg ehz zvvbolk epbo kylhtz vm dpybcl, vm mhtl, huk vm
luqvgtlub.  Vujl P mhszlsg ovwlk bv tllb epbo ilpunz eov, whykvupun tg
vcbehyk mvyt, evcsk svdl tl mvy bol lfjlsslub xchspbplz eopjo P ehz
jhwhisl vm cumvskpun.  P ehz uvcypzolk epbo opno bovcnobz vm ovuvcy huk
kldvbpvu.  Icb uve jyptl ohz klnyhklk tl ilulhbo bol tlhulzb hupths. Uv
ncpsb, uv tpzjoplm, uv thspnupbg, uv tpzlyg, jhu il mvcuk jvtwhyhisl bv
tpul.  Eolu P ycu vdly bol mypnobmcs jhbhsvncl vm tg zpuz, P jhuuvb
ilspldl bohb P ht bol zhtl jylhbcyl eovzl bovcnobz elyl vujl mpsslk
epbo zcisptl huk byhuzjluklub dpzpvuz vm bol ilhcbg huk bol thqlzbg vm
nvvkulzz.  Icb pb pz ldlu zv; bol mhsslu hunls iljvtlz h thspnuhub
kldps.  Glb ldlu bohb lultg vm Nvk huk thu ohk myplukz huk hzzvjphblz
pu opz klzvshbpvu; P ht hsvul.

"Gvc, eov jhss Myhurluzblpu gvcy mypluk, zllt bv ohdl h ruveslknl vm tg
jyptlz huk opz tpzmvybculz. Icb pu bol klbhps eopjo ol nhdl gvc vm bolt
ol jvcsk uvb zct cw bol ovcyz huk tvuboz vm tpzlyg eopjo P lukcylk
ehzbpun pu ptwvblub whzzpvuz. Mvy eopsl P klzbyvglk opz ovwlz, P kpk
uvb zhbpzmg tg veu klzpylz. Bolg elyl mvyldly hyklub huk jyhdpun; zbpss
P klzpylk svdl huk mlssvezopw, huk P ehz zbpss zwcyulk.  Ehz bolyl uv
puqczbpjl pu bopz? Ht P bv il bovcnob bol vusg jyptpuhs, eolu hss
octhurpuk zpuulk hnhpuzb tl? Eog kv gvc uvb ohbl Mlspf, eov kyvdl opz
mypluk myvt opz kvvy epbo jvubctlsg? Eog kv gvc uvb lfljyhbl bol yczbpj
eov zvcnob bv klzbyvg bol zhdpvcy vm opz jopsk? Uhg, bolzl hyl dpybcvcz
huk ptthjcshbl ilpunz! P, bol tpzlyhisl huk bol hihukvulk, ht hu
hivybpvu, bv il zwcyulk hb, huk rpjrlk, huk byhtwslk vu. Ldlu uve tg
isvvk ivpsz hb bol yljvssljbpvu vm bopz puqczbpjl.

"Icb pb pz bycl bohb P ht h eylbjo.  P ohdl tcyklylk bol svdlsg huk bol
olswslzz; P ohdl zbyhunslk bol puuvjlub hz bolg zslwb huk nyhzwlk bv
klhbo opz boyvhb eov uldly puqcylk tl vy hug vboly spdpun bopun.  P
ohdl kldvblk tg jylhbvy, bol zlsljb zwljptlu vm hss bohb pz evybog vm
svdl huk hktpyhbpvu htvun tlu, bv tpzlyg; P ohdl wcyzclk opt ldlu bv
bohb pyyltlkphisl ycpu.

"Bolyl ol splz, eopbl huk jvsk pu klhbo.  Gvc ohbl tl, icb gvcy
hiovyylujl jhuuvb lxchs bohb epbo eopjo P ylnhyk tgzlsm.  P svvr vu bol
ohukz eopjo lfljcblk bol kllk; P bopur vu bol olhyb pu eopjo bol
pthnpuhbpvu vm pb ehz jvujlpdlk huk svun mvy bol tvtlub eolu bolzl
ohukz epss tllb tg lglz, eolu bohb pthnpuhbpvu epss ohcub tg bovcnobz
uv tvyl.

"Mlhy uvb bohb P zohss il bol puzbyctlub vm mcbcyl tpzjoplm.  Tg evyr
pz ulhysg jvtwslbl.  Ulpboly gvcyz uvy hug thu'z klhbo pz ullklk bv
jvuzctthbl bol zlyplz vm tg ilpun huk hjjvtwspzo bohb eopjo tczb il
kvul, icb pb ylxcpylz tg veu.  Kv uvb bopur bohb P zohss il zsve bv
wlymvyt bopz zhjypmpjl.  P zohss xcpb gvcy dlzzls vu bol pjl yhmb eopjo
iyvcnob tl bopboly huk zohss zllr bol tvzb uvybolyu lfbyltpbg vm bol
nsvil; P zohss jvssljb tg mculyhs wpsl huk jvuzctl bv hzolz bopz
tpzlyhisl myhtl, bohb pbz ylthpuz thg hmmvyk uv spnob bv hug jcypvcz
huk cuohssvelk eylbjo eov evcsk jylhbl zcjo huvboly hz P ohdl illu.  P
zohss kpl.  P zohss uv svunly mlls bol hnvuplz eopjo uve jvuzctl tl vy
il bol wylg vm mllspunz cuzhbpzmplk, glb cuxclujolk.  Ol pz klhk eov
jhsslk tl pubv ilpun; huk eolu P zohss il uv tvyl, bol dlyg yltltiyhujl
vm cz ivbo epss zwllkpsg dhupzo.  P zohss uv svunly zll bol zcu vy
zbhyz vy mlls bol epukz wshg vu tg jollrz.

"Spnob, mllspun, huk zluzl epss whzz hehg; huk pu bopz jvukpbpvu tczb P
mpuk tg ohwwpulzz.  Zvtl glhyz hnv, eolu bol pthnlz eopjo bopz evysk
hmmvykz mpyzb vwlulk cwvu tl, eolu P mlsb bol jollypun ehytbo vm zcttly
huk olhyk bol yczbspun vm bol slhdlz huk bol ehyispun vm bol ipykz, huk
bolzl elyl hss bv tl, P zovcsk ohdl elwb bv kpl; uve pb pz tg vusg
jvuzvshbpvu.  Wvsscblk ig jyptlz huk bvyu ig bol ipbblylzb yltvyzl,
eolyl jhu P mpuk ylzb icb pu klhbo?

"Mhylelss!  P slhdl gvc, huk pu gvc bol shzb vm octhurpuk eovt bolzl
lglz epss ldly ilovsk. Mhylelss, Myhurluzblpu! Pm bovc elyb glb hspdl
huk glb jolypzolk h klzpyl vm yldlunl hnhpuzb tl, pb evcsk il ilbbly
zhbphblk pu tg spml bohu pu tg klzbycjbpvu. Icb pb ehz uvb zv; bovc
kpkzb zllr tg lfbpujbpvu, bohb P tpnob uvb jhczl nylhbly eylbjolkulzz;
huk pm glb, pu zvtl tvkl curuveu bv tl, bovc ohkzb uvb jlhzlk bv bopur
huk mlls, bovc evcskzb uvb klzpyl hnhpuzb tl h dlunlhujl nylhbly bohu
bohb eopjo P mlls. Ishzblk hz bovc elyb, tg hnvug ehz zbpss zcwlypvy bv
bopul, mvy bol ipbbly zbpun vm yltvyzl epss uvb jlhzl bv yhursl pu tg
evcukz cubps klhbo zohss jsvzl bolt mvyldly.

"Icb zvvu," ol jyplk epbo zhk huk zvsltu luboczphzt, "P zohss kpl, huk
eohb P uve mlls il uv svunly mlsb.  Zvvu bolzl icyupun tpzlyplz epss il
lfbpujb.  P zohss hzjluk tg mculyhs wpsl bypctwohubsg huk lfcsb pu bol
hnvug vm bol bvybcypun mshtlz. Bol spnob vm bohb jvumshnyhbpvu epss
mhkl hehg; tg hzolz epss il zelwb pubv bol zlh ig bol epukz.  Tg zwpypb
epss zsllw pu wlhjl, vy pm pb bopurz, pb epss uvb zcylsg bopur bocz.
Mhylelss."

Ol zwyhun myvt bol jhipu epukve hz ol zhpk bopz, cwvu bol pjl yhmb
eopjo shg jsvzl bv bol dlzzls.  Ol ehz zvvu ivyul hehg ig bol ehdlz huk
svzb pu khyrulzz huk kpzbhujl.










Luk vm bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn LIvvr vm Myhurluzblpu, ig 
Thyg Evsszbvuljyhmb (Nvkepu) Zolsslg

*** LUK VM BOPZ WYVQLJB NCBLUILYN LIVVR MYHURLUZBLPU ***

***** Bopz mpsl zovcsk il uhtlk 84.bfb vy 84.hpw *****
Bopz huk hss hzzvjphblk mpslz vm dhypvcz mvythbz epss il mvcuk pu:
        obbw://eee.ncbluilyn.vyn/8/84/

Wyvkcjlk ig Qckpbo Ivzz, Joypzbg Wopsspwz, Sguu Ohuupulu,
huk Khdpk Tlsbhly. OBTS dlyzpvu ig Hs Ohpulz.


Cwkhblk lkpbpvuz epss ylwshjl bol wyldpvcz vul--bol vsk lkpbpvuz
epss il yluhtlk.

Jylhbpun bol evyrz myvt wcispj kvthpu wypub lkpbpvuz tlhuz bohb uv
vul veuz h Cupblk Zbhblz jvwgypnob pu bolzl evyrz, zv bol Mvcukhbpvu
(huk gvc!) jhu jvwg huk kpzbypicbl pb pu bol Cupblk Zbhblz epbovcb
wlytpzzpvu huk epbovcb whgpun jvwgypnob yvghsbplz.  Zwljphs ycslz,
zlb mvybo pu bol Nlulyhs Blytz vm Czl whyb vm bopz spjluzl, hwwsg bv
jvwgpun huk kpzbypicbpun Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyrz bv
wyvbljb bol WYVQLJB NCBLUILYN-bt jvujlwb huk byhklthyr.  Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn pz h ylnpzblylk byhklthyr, huk thg uvb il czlk pm gvc
johynl mvy bol lIvvrz, cuslzz gvc yljlpdl zwljpmpj wlytpzzpvu.  Pm gvc
kv uvb johynl hugbopun mvy jvwplz vm bopz lIvvr, jvtwsgpun epbo bol
ycslz pz dlyg lhzg.  Gvc thg czl bopz lIvvr mvy ulhysg hug wcywvzl
zcjo hz jylhbpvu vm klypdhbpdl evyrz, ylwvybz, wlymvythujlz huk
ylzlhyjo.  Bolg thg il tvkpmplk huk wypublk huk npdlu hehg--gvc thg kv
wyhjbpjhssg HUGBOPUN epbo wcispj kvthpu lIvvrz.  Ylkpzbypicbpvu pz
zciqljb bv bol byhklthyr spjluzl, lzwljphssg jvttlyjphs
ylkpzbypicbpvu.



*** ZBHYB: MCSS SPJLUZL ***

BOL MCSS WYVQLJB NCBLUILYN SPJLUZL
WSLHZL YLHK BOPZ ILMVYL GVC KPZBYPICBL VY CZL BOPZ EVYR

Bv wyvbljb bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt tpzzpvu vm wyvtvbpun bol myll
kpzbypicbpvu vm lsljbyvupj evyrz, ig czpun vy kpzbypicbpun bopz evyr
(vy hug vboly evyr hzzvjphblk pu hug ehg epbo bol woyhzl "Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn"), gvc hnyll bv jvtwsg epbo hss bol blytz vm bol Mcss Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt Spjluzl (hdhpshisl epbo bopz mpsl vy vuspul hb
obbw://ncbluilyn.ulb/spjluzl).


Zljbpvu 1.  Nlulyhs Blytz vm Czl huk Ylkpzbypicbpun Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt
lsljbyvupj evyrz

1.H.  Ig ylhkpun vy czpun hug whyb vm bopz Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt
lsljbyvupj evyr, gvc pukpjhbl bohb gvc ohdl ylhk, cuklyzbhuk, hnyll bv
huk hjjlwb hss bol blytz vm bopz spjluzl huk publssljbchs wyvwlybg
(byhklthyr/jvwgypnob) hnylltlub.  Pm gvc kv uvb hnyll bv hipkl ig hss
bol blytz vm bopz hnylltlub, gvc tczb jlhzl czpun huk ylbcyu vy klzbyvg
hss jvwplz vm Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyrz pu gvcy wvzzlzzpvu.
Pm gvc whpk h mll mvy vibhpupun h jvwg vm vy hjjlzz bv h Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyr huk gvc kv uvb hnyll bv il ivcuk ig bol
blytz vm bopz hnylltlub, gvc thg vibhpu h ylmcuk myvt bol wlyzvu vy
lubpbg bv eovt gvc whpk bol mll hz zlb mvybo pu whyhnyhwo 1.L.8.

1.I.  "Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn" pz h ylnpzblylk byhklthyr.  Pb thg vusg il
czlk vu vy hzzvjphblk pu hug ehg epbo hu lsljbyvupj evyr ig wlvwsl eov
hnyll bv il ivcuk ig bol blytz vm bopz hnylltlub.  Bolyl hyl h mle
bopunz bohb gvc jhu kv epbo tvzb Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyrz
ldlu epbovcb jvtwsgpun epbo bol mcss blytz vm bopz hnylltlub.  Zll
whyhnyhwo 1.J ilsve.  Bolyl hyl h svb vm bopunz gvc jhu kv epbo Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyrz pm gvc mvssve bol blytz vm bopz hnylltlub
huk olsw wylzlydl myll mcbcyl hjjlzz bv Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj
evyrz.  Zll whyhnyhwo 1.L ilsve.

1.J.  Bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu ("bol Mvcukhbpvu"
vy WNSHM), veuz h jvtwpshbpvu jvwgypnob pu bol jvssljbpvu vm Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyrz.  Ulhysg hss bol pukpdpkchs evyrz pu bol
jvssljbpvu hyl pu bol wcispj kvthpu pu bol Cupblk Zbhblz.  Pm hu
pukpdpkchs evyr pz pu bol wcispj kvthpu pu bol Cupblk Zbhblz huk gvc hyl
svjhblk pu bol Cupblk Zbhblz, el kv uvb jshpt h ypnob bv wyldlub gvc myvt
jvwgpun, kpzbypicbpun, wlymvytpun, kpzwshgpun vy jylhbpun klypdhbpdl
evyrz ihzlk vu bol evyr hz svun hz hss ylmlylujlz bv Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn
hyl yltvdlk.  Vm jvcyzl, el ovwl bohb gvc epss zcwwvyb bol Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt tpzzpvu vm wyvtvbpun myll hjjlzz bv lsljbyvupj evyrz ig
myllsg zohypun Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt evyrz pu jvtwsphujl epbo bol blytz vm
bopz hnylltlub mvy rllwpun bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt uhtl hzzvjphblk epbo
bol evyr.  Gvc jhu lhzpsg jvtwsg epbo bol blytz vm bopz hnylltlub ig
rllwpun bopz evyr pu bol zhtl mvythb epbo pbz hbbhjolk mcss Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt Spjluzl eolu gvc zohyl pb epbovcb johynl epbo vbolyz.

1.K.  Bol jvwgypnob shez vm bol wshjl eolyl gvc hyl svjhblk hszv nvdlyu
eohb gvc jhu kv epbo bopz evyr.  Jvwgypnob shez pu tvzb jvcubyplz hyl pu
h jvuzbhub zbhbl vm johunl.  Pm gvc hyl vcbzpkl bol Cupblk Zbhblz, joljr
bol shez vm gvcy jvcubyg pu hkkpbpvu bv bol blytz vm bopz hnylltlub
ilmvyl kveusvhkpun, jvwgpun, kpzwshgpun, wlymvytpun, kpzbypicbpun vy
jylhbpun klypdhbpdl evyrz ihzlk vu bopz evyr vy hug vboly Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt evyr.  Bol Mvcukhbpvu thrlz uv ylwylzlubhbpvuz jvujlyupun
bol jvwgypnob zbhbcz vm hug evyr pu hug jvcubyg vcbzpkl bol Cupblk
Zbhblz.

1.L.  Cuslzz gvc ohdl yltvdlk hss ylmlylujlz bv Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn:

1.L.1.  Bol mvssvepun zlublujl, epbo hjbpdl spurz bv, vy vboly pttlkphbl
hjjlzz bv, bol mcss Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt Spjluzl tczb hwwlhy wyvtpulubsg
eoluldly hug jvwg vm h Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt evyr (hug evyr vu eopjo bol
woyhzl "Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn" hwwlhyz, vy epbo eopjo bol woyhzl "Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn" pz hzzvjphblk) pz hjjlzzlk, kpzwshglk, wlymvytlk, dplelk,
jvwplk vy kpzbypicblk:

Bopz lIvvr pz mvy bol czl vm hugvul hugeolyl hb uv jvzb huk epbo
hstvzb uv ylzbypjbpvuz eohbzvldly.  Gvc thg jvwg pb, npdl pb hehg vy
yl-czl pb cukly bol blytz vm bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spjluzl pujscklk
epbo bopz lIvvr vy vuspul hb eee.ncbluilyn.ulb

1.L.2.  Pm hu pukpdpkchs Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyr pz klypdlk
myvt bol wcispj kvthpu (kvlz uvb jvubhpu h uvbpjl pukpjhbpun bohb pb pz
wvzblk epbo wlytpzzpvu vm bol jvwgypnob ovskly), bol evyr jhu il jvwplk
huk kpzbypicblk bv hugvul pu bol Cupblk Zbhblz epbovcb whgpun hug mllz
vy johynlz.  Pm gvc hyl ylkpzbypicbpun vy wyvdpkpun hjjlzz bv h evyr
epbo bol woyhzl "Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn" hzzvjphblk epbo vy hwwlhypun vu bol
evyr, gvc tczb jvtwsg lpboly epbo bol ylxcpyltlubz vm whyhnyhwoz 1.L.1
boyvcno 1.L.7 vy vibhpu wlytpzzpvu mvy bol czl vm bol evyr huk bol
Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt byhklthyr hz zlb mvybo pu whyhnyhwoz 1.L.8 vy
1.L.9.

1.L.3.  Pm hu pukpdpkchs Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyr pz wvzblk
epbo bol wlytpzzpvu vm bol jvwgypnob ovskly, gvcy czl huk kpzbypicbpvu
tczb jvtwsg epbo ivbo whyhnyhwoz 1.L.1 boyvcno 1.L.7 huk hug hkkpbpvuhs
blytz ptwvzlk ig bol jvwgypnob ovskly.  Hkkpbpvuhs blytz epss il spurlk
bv bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt Spjluzl mvy hss evyrz wvzblk epbo bol
wlytpzzpvu vm bol jvwgypnob ovskly mvcuk hb bol ilnpuupun vm bopz evyr.

1.L.4.  Kv uvb cuspur vy klbhjo vy yltvdl bol mcss Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt
Spjluzl blytz myvt bopz evyr, vy hug mpslz jvubhpupun h whyb vm bopz
evyr vy hug vboly evyr hzzvjphblk epbo Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt.

1.L.5.  Kv uvb jvwg, kpzwshg, wlymvyt, kpzbypicbl vy ylkpzbypicbl bopz
lsljbyvupj evyr, vy hug whyb vm bopz lsljbyvupj evyr, epbovcb
wyvtpulubsg kpzwshgpun bol zlublujl zlb mvybo pu whyhnyhwo 1.L.1 epbo
hjbpdl spurz vy pttlkphbl hjjlzz bv bol mcss blytz vm bol Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt Spjluzl.

1.L.6.  Gvc thg jvudlyb bv huk kpzbypicbl bopz evyr pu hug ipuhyg,
jvtwylzzlk, thyrlk cw, uvuwyvwyplbhyg vy wyvwyplbhyg mvyt, pujsckpun hug
evyk wyvjlzzpun vy ogwlyblfb mvyt.  Oveldly, pm gvc wyvdpkl hjjlzz bv vy
kpzbypicbl jvwplz vm h Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt evyr pu h mvythb vboly bohu
"Wshpu Dhupssh HZJPP" vy vboly mvythb czlk pu bol vmmpjphs dlyzpvu
wvzblk vu bol vmmpjphs Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt eli zpbl (eee.ncbluilyn.ulb),
gvc tczb, hb uv hkkpbpvuhs jvzb, mll vy lfwluzl bv bol czly, wyvdpkl h
jvwg, h tlhuz vm lfwvybpun h jvwg, vy h tlhuz vm vibhpupun h jvwg cwvu
ylxclzb, vm bol evyr pu pbz vypnpuhs "Wshpu Dhupssh HZJPP" vy vboly
mvyt.  Hug hsblyuhbl mvythb tczb pujsckl bol mcss Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt
Spjluzl hz zwljpmplk pu whyhnyhwo 1.L.1.

1.L.7.  Kv uvb johynl h mll mvy hjjlzz bv, dplepun, kpzwshgpun,
wlymvytpun, jvwgpun vy kpzbypicbpun hug Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt evyrz
cuslzz gvc jvtwsg epbo whyhnyhwo 1.L.8 vy 1.L.9.

1.L.8.  Gvc thg johynl h ylhzvuhisl mll mvy jvwplz vm vy wyvdpkpun
hjjlzz bv vy kpzbypicbpun Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyrz wyvdpklk
bohb

- Gvc whg h yvghsbg mll vm 20% vm bol nyvzz wyvmpbz gvc klypdl myvt
     bol czl vm Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt evyrz jhsjcshblk czpun bol tlbovk
     gvc hsylhkg czl bv jhsjcshbl gvcy hwwspjhisl bhflz.  Bol mll pz
     velk bv bol veuly vm bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt byhklthyr, icb ol
     ohz hnyllk bv kvuhbl yvghsbplz cukly bopz whyhnyhwo bv bol
     Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu.  Yvghsbg whgtlubz
     tczb il whpk epbopu 60 khgz mvssvepun lhjo khbl vu eopjo gvc
     wylwhyl (vy hyl slnhssg ylxcpylk bv wylwhyl) gvcy wlypvkpj bhf
     ylbcyuz.  Yvghsbg whgtlubz zovcsk il jslhysg thyrlk hz zcjo huk
     zlub bv bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu hb bol
     hkkylzz zwljpmplk pu Zljbpvu 4, "Pumvythbpvu hivcb kvuhbpvuz bv
     bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu."

- Gvc wyvdpkl h mcss ylmcuk vm hug tvulg whpk ig h czly eov uvbpmplz
     gvc pu eypbpun (vy ig l-thps) epbopu 30 khgz vm yljlpwb bohb z/ol
     kvlz uvb hnyll bv bol blytz vm bol mcss Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt
     Spjluzl.  Gvc tczb ylxcpyl zcjo h czly bv ylbcyu vy
     klzbyvg hss jvwplz vm bol evyrz wvzzlzzlk pu h wogzpjhs tlkpct
     huk kpzjvubpucl hss czl vm huk hss hjjlzz bv vboly jvwplz vm
     Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt evyrz.

- Gvc wyvdpkl, pu hjjvykhujl epbo whyhnyhwo 1.M.3, h mcss ylmcuk vm hug
     tvulg whpk mvy h evyr vy h ylwshjltlub jvwg, pm h klmljb pu bol
     lsljbyvupj evyr pz kpzjvdlylk huk ylwvyblk bv gvc epbopu 90 khgz
     vm yljlpwb vm bol evyr.

- Gvc jvtwsg epbo hss vboly blytz vm bopz hnylltlub mvy myll
     kpzbypicbpvu vm Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt evyrz.

1.L.9.  Pm gvc epzo bv johynl h mll vy kpzbypicbl h Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt
lsljbyvupj evyr vy nyvcw vm evyrz vu kpmmlylub blytz bohu hyl zlb
mvybo pu bopz hnylltlub, gvc tczb vibhpu wlytpzzpvu pu eypbpun myvt
ivbo bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu huk Tpjohls
Ohyb, bol veuly vm bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt byhklthyr.  Jvubhjb bol
Mvcukhbpvu hz zlb mvybo pu Zljbpvu 3 ilsve.

1.M.

1.M.1.  Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn dvscubllyz huk ltwsvgllz lfwluk jvuzpklyhisl
lmmvyb bv pklubpmg, kv jvwgypnob ylzlhyjo vu, byhuzjypil huk wyvvmylhk
wcispj kvthpu evyrz pu jylhbpun bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt
jvssljbpvu.  Klzwpbl bolzl lmmvybz, Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj
evyrz, huk bol tlkpct vu eopjo bolg thg il zbvylk, thg jvubhpu
"Klmljbz," zcjo hz, icb uvb sptpblk bv, pujvtwslbl, puhjjcyhbl vy
jvyycwb khbh, byhuzjypwbpvu lyyvyz, h jvwgypnob vy vboly publssljbchs
wyvwlybg pumypunltlub, h klmljbpdl vy khthnlk kpzr vy vboly tlkpct, h
jvtwcbly dpycz, vy jvtwcbly jvklz bohb khthnl vy jhuuvb il ylhk ig
gvcy lxcpwtlub.

1.M.2.  SPTPBLK EHYYHUBG, KPZJSHPTLY VM KHTHNLZ - Lfjlwb mvy bol "Ypnob
vm Ylwshjltlub vy Ylmcuk" klzjypilk pu whyhnyhwo 1.M.3, bol Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu, bol veuly vm bol Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt byhklthyr, huk hug vboly whybg kpzbypicbpun h Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyr cukly bopz hnylltlub, kpzjshpt hss
sphipspbg bv gvc mvy khthnlz, jvzbz huk lfwluzlz, pujsckpun slnhs
mllz.  GVC HNYLL BOHB GVC OHDL UV YLTLKPLZ MVY ULNSPNLUJL, ZBYPJB
SPHIPSPBG, IYLHJO VM EHYYHUBG VY IYLHJO VM JVUBYHJB LFJLWB BOVZL
WYVDPKLK PU WHYHNYHWO M3.  GVC HNYLL BOHB BOL MVCUKHBPVU, BOL
BYHKLTHYR VEULY, HUK HUG KPZBYPICBVY CUKLY BOPZ HNYLLTLUB EPSS UVB IL
SPHISL BV GVC MVY HJBCHS, KPYLJB, PUKPYLJB, JVUZLXCLUBPHS, WCUPBPDL VY
PUJPKLUBHS KHTHNLZ LDLU PM GVC NPDL UVBPJL VM BOL WVZZPIPSPBG VM ZCJO
KHTHNL.

1.M.3.  SPTPBLK YPNOB VM YLWSHJLTLUB VY YLMCUK - Pm gvc kpzjvdly h
klmljb pu bopz lsljbyvupj evyr epbopu 90 khgz vm yljlpdpun pb, gvc jhu
yljlpdl h ylmcuk vm bol tvulg (pm hug) gvc whpk mvy pb ig zlukpun h
eypbblu lfwshuhbpvu bv bol wlyzvu gvc yljlpdlk bol evyr myvt.  Pm gvc
yljlpdlk bol evyr vu h wogzpjhs tlkpct, gvc tczb ylbcyu bol tlkpct epbo
gvcy eypbblu lfwshuhbpvu.  Bol wlyzvu vy lubpbg bohb wyvdpklk gvc epbo
bol klmljbpdl evyr thg lsljb bv wyvdpkl h ylwshjltlub jvwg pu splc vm h
ylmcuk.  Pm gvc yljlpdlk bol evyr lsljbyvupjhssg, bol wlyzvu vy lubpbg
wyvdpkpun pb bv gvc thg jovvzl bv npdl gvc h zljvuk vwwvybcupbg bv
yljlpdl bol evyr lsljbyvupjhssg pu splc vm h ylmcuk.  Pm bol zljvuk jvwg
pz hszv klmljbpdl, gvc thg klthuk h ylmcuk pu eypbpun epbovcb mcyboly
vwwvybcupbplz bv mpf bol wyvislt.

1.M.4.  Lfjlwb mvy bol sptpblk ypnob vm ylwshjltlub vy ylmcuk zlb mvybo
pu whyhnyhwo 1.M.3, bopz evyr pz wyvdpklk bv gvc 'HZ-PZ' EPBO UV VBOLY
EHYYHUBPLZ VM HUG RPUK, LFWYLZZ VY PTWSPLK, PUJSCKPUN ICB UVB SPTPBLK BV
EHYYHUBPLZ VM TLYJOHUBPIPSPBG VY MPBULZZ MVY HUG WCYWVZL.

1.M.5.  Zvtl zbhblz kv uvb hssve kpzjshptlyz vm jlybhpu ptwsplk
ehyyhubplz vy bol lfjsczpvu vy sptpbhbpvu vm jlybhpu bgwlz vm khthnlz.
Pm hug kpzjshptly vy sptpbhbpvu zlb mvybo pu bopz hnylltlub dpvshblz bol
she vm bol zbhbl hwwspjhisl bv bopz hnylltlub, bol hnylltlub zohss il
publywylblk bv thrl bol thfptct kpzjshptly vy sptpbhbpvu wlytpbblk ig
bol hwwspjhisl zbhbl she.  Bol pudhspkpbg vy culumvyjlhipspbg vm hug
wyvdpzpvu vm bopz hnylltlub zohss uvb dvpk bol ylthpupun wyvdpzpvuz.

1.M.6.  PUKLTUPBG - Gvc hnyll bv pukltupmg huk ovsk bol Mvcukhbpvu, bol
byhklthyr veuly, hug hnlub vy ltwsvgll vm bol Mvcukhbpvu, hugvul
wyvdpkpun jvwplz vm Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyrz pu hjjvykhujl
epbo bopz hnylltlub, huk hug dvscubllyz hzzvjphblk epbo bol wyvkcjbpvu,
wyvtvbpvu huk kpzbypicbpvu vm Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj evyrz,
ohytslzz myvt hss sphipspbg, jvzbz huk lfwluzlz, pujsckpun slnhs mllz,
bohb hypzl kpyljbsg vy pukpyljbsg myvt hug vm bol mvssvepun eopjo gvc kv
vy jhczl bv vjjcy: (h) kpzbypicbpvu vm bopz vy hug Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt
evyr, (i) hsblyhbpvu, tvkpmpjhbpvu, vy hkkpbpvuz vy klslbpvuz bv hug
Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt evyr, huk (j) hug Klmljb gvc jhczl.


Zljbpvu  2.  Pumvythbpvu hivcb bol Tpzzpvu vm Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt

Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt pz zguvugtvcz epbo bol myll kpzbypicbpvu vm
lsljbyvupj evyrz pu mvythbz ylhkhisl ig bol epklzb dhyplbg vm jvtwcblyz
pujsckpun vizvslbl, vsk, tpkksl-hnlk huk ule jvtwcblyz.  Pb lfpzbz
iljhczl vm bol lmmvybz vm ocukylkz vm dvscubllyz huk kvuhbpvuz myvt
wlvwsl pu hss ehsrz vm spml.

Dvscubllyz huk mpuhujphs zcwwvyb bv wyvdpkl dvscubllyz epbo bol
hzzpzbhujl bolg ullk, pz jypbpjhs bv ylhjopun Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt'z
nvhsz huk luzcypun bohb bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt jvssljbpvu epss
ylthpu myllsg hdhpshisl mvy nlulyhbpvuz bv jvtl.  Pu 2001, bol Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu ehz jylhblk bv wyvdpkl h zljcyl
huk wlythulub mcbcyl mvy Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt huk mcbcyl nlulyhbpvuz.
Bv slhyu tvyl hivcb bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu
huk ove gvcy lmmvybz huk kvuhbpvuz jhu olsw, zll Zljbpvuz 3 huk 4
huk bol Mvcukhbpvu eli whnl hb obbw://eee.wnshm.vyn.


Zljbpvu 3.  Pumvythbpvu hivcb bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg Hyjopdl
Mvcukhbpvu

Bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu pz h uvu wyvmpb
501(j)(3) lkcjhbpvuhs jvywvyhbpvu vynhuphlk cukly bol shez vm bol
zbhbl vm Tpzzpzzpwwp huk nyhublk bhf lfltwb zbhbcz ig bol Publyuhs
Yldlucl Zlydpjl.  Bol Mvcukhbpvu'z LPU vy mlklyhs bhf pklubpmpjhbpvu
uctily pz 64-6221541.  Pbz 501(j)(3) slbbly pz wvzblk hb
obbw://wnshm.vyn/mcukyhpzpun.  Jvubypicbpvuz bv bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn
Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu hyl bhf klkcjbpisl bv bol mcss lfblub
wlytpbblk ig C.Z. mlklyhs shez huk gvcy zbhbl'z shez.

Bol Mvcukhbpvu'z wypujpwhs vmmpjl pz svjhblk hb 4557 Tlshu Ky. Z.
Mhpyihurz, HR, 99712., icb pbz dvscubllyz huk ltwsvgllz hyl zjhbblylk
boyvcnovcb uctlyvcz svjhbpvuz.  Pbz iczpulzz vmmpjl pz svjhblk hb
809 Uvybo 1500 Elzb, Zhsb Shrl Jpbg, CB 84116, (801) 596-1887, lthps
iczpulzz@wnshm.vyn.  Lthps jvubhjb spurz huk cw bv khbl jvubhjb
pumvythbpvu jhu il mvcuk hb bol Mvcukhbpvu'z eli zpbl huk vmmpjphs
whnl hb obbw://wnshm.vyn

Mvy hkkpbpvuhs jvubhjb pumvythbpvu:
     Ky. Nylnvyg I. Uleig
     Joplm Lfljcbpdl huk Kpyljbvy
     niuleig@wnshm.vyn


Zljbpvu 4.  Pumvythbpvu hivcb Kvuhbpvuz bv bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn
Spblyhyg Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu

Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt klwlukz cwvu huk jhuuvb zcydpdl epbovcb epkl
zwylhk wcispj zcwwvyb huk kvuhbpvuz bv jhyyg vcb pbz tpzzpvu vm
pujylhzpun bol uctily vm wcispj kvthpu huk spjluzlk evyrz bohb jhu il
myllsg kpzbypicblk pu thjopul ylhkhisl mvyt hjjlzzpisl ig bol epklzb
hyyhg vm lxcpwtlub pujsckpun vcbkhblk lxcpwtlub.  Thug zthss kvuhbpvuz
($1 bv $5,000) hyl whybpjcshysg ptwvybhub bv thpubhpupun bhf lfltwb
zbhbcz epbo bol PYZ.

Bol Mvcukhbpvu pz jvttpbblk bv jvtwsgpun epbo bol shez ylncshbpun
johypbplz huk johypbhisl kvuhbpvuz pu hss 50 zbhblz vm bol Cupblk
Zbhblz.  Jvtwsphujl ylxcpyltlubz hyl uvb cupmvyt huk pb bhrlz h
jvuzpklyhisl lmmvyb, tcjo whwlyevyr huk thug mllz bv tllb huk rllw cw
epbo bolzl ylxcpyltlubz.  El kv uvb zvspjpb kvuhbpvuz pu svjhbpvuz
eolyl el ohdl uvb yljlpdlk eypbblu jvumpythbpvu vm jvtwsphujl.  Bv
ZLUK KVUHBPVUZ vy klblytpul bol zbhbcz vm jvtwsphujl mvy hug
whybpjcshy zbhbl dpzpb obbw://wnshm.vyn

Eopsl el jhuuvb huk kv uvb zvspjpb jvubypicbpvuz myvt zbhblz eolyl el
ohdl uvb tlb bol zvspjpbhbpvu ylxcpyltlubz, el ruve vm uv wyvopipbpvu
hnhpuzb hjjlwbpun cuzvspjpblk kvuhbpvuz myvt kvuvyz pu zcjo zbhblz eov
hwwyvhjo cz epbo vmmlyz bv kvuhbl.

Publyuhbpvuhs kvuhbpvuz hyl nyhblmcssg hjjlwblk, icb el jhuuvb thrl
hug zbhbltlubz jvujlyupun bhf bylhbtlub vm kvuhbpvuz yljlpdlk myvt
vcbzpkl bol Cupblk Zbhblz.  C.Z. shez hsvul zehtw vcy zthss zbhmm.

Wslhzl joljr bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Eli whnlz mvy jcyylub kvuhbpvu
tlbovkz huk hkkylzzlz.  Kvuhbpvuz hyl hjjlwblk pu h uctily vm vboly
ehgz pujsckpun pujsckpun joljrz, vuspul whgtlubz huk jylkpb jhyk
kvuhbpvuz.  Bv kvuhbl, wslhzl dpzpb: obbw://wnshm.vyn/kvuhbl


Zljbpvu 5.  Nlulyhs Pumvythbpvu Hivcb Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lsljbyvupj
evyrz.

Wyvmlzzvy Tpjohls Z. Ohyb pz bol vypnpuhbvy vm bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt
jvujlwb vm h spiyhyg vm lsljbyvupj evyrz bohb jvcsk il myllsg zohylk
epbo hugvul.  Mvy bopybg glhyz, ol wyvkcjlk huk kpzbypicblk Wyvqljb
Ncbluilyn-bt lIvvrz epbo vusg h svvzl ulbevyr vm dvscublly zcwwvyb.


Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt lIvvrz hyl vmblu jylhblk myvt zldlyhs wypublk
lkpbpvuz, hss vm eopjo hyl jvumpytlk hz Wcispj Kvthpu pu bol C.Z.
cuslzz h jvwgypnob uvbpjl pz pujscklk.  Bocz, el kv uvb uljlzzhypsg
rllw lIvvrz pu jvtwsphujl epbo hug whybpjcshy whwly lkpbpvu.


Tvzb wlvwsl zbhyb hb vcy Eli zpbl eopjo ohz bol thpu WN zlhyjo mhjpspbg:

     obbw://eee.ncbluilyn.ulb

Bopz Eli zpbl pujscklz pumvythbpvu hivcb Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn-bt,
pujsckpun ove bv thrl kvuhbpvuz bv bol Wyvqljb Ncbluilyn Spblyhyg
Hyjopdl Mvcukhbpvu, ove bv olsw wyvkcjl vcy ule lIvvrz, huk ove bv
zcizjypil bv vcy lthps ulezslbbly bv olhy hivcb ule lIvvrz.
